
Ti=Definitions

0.sec=In addition to the terms defined at the top of the first page of this agreement, the following definitions apply:

1.sec="{_Acceptance_Criteria}" means the {_Client}'s acceptance criteria for a particular {_Deliverable} as detailed in the Statement of Work in connection with that {_Deliverable}.

2.sec="{_Additional_Services}" means additional services that the {_Service_Provider} will provide to the {_Client} in accordance with the terms of this agreement.

3.sec="{_Additional_Service}" means any service that the {_Client} requests, in accordance with section 7.01 (Request for {_Additional_Services}), be added to the Services.

4.sec="{_Affiliate}" of any Person means, at the time the determination is made, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, {_Controls}, is {_Control}led by, or is under common {_Control} with that Person.

5.sec="{_Approved_Subcontractor}" means a subcontractor that has been approved by the {_Client} in writing to provide Services.

6.sec="{_Business_Day}" means a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, or any other day on which the principal chartered banks located in {REFERENCE CITY} are not open for business.

7.sec="{_Change_Order}" means an order implementing a {_Change_Request}, in the form attached as Exhibit 2, that the parties have agreed to, signed by an authorized signing officer on behalf of each party.

8.sec={_Change_Request}" means a {_Notice} that the {_Client} sends to the {_Service_Provider} requesting a modification of one or more Services, setting forth in reasonable detail a description of the requested modification and its proposed effective date.

9.0.sec="{_Client_Data}" means all Information of, about, or relating to the {_Client} and includes

9.1.sec=information that the {_Client} provides to the {_Service_Provider} in connection with the {_Service_Provider}'s performance of the Services, and

9.2.sec=information the {_Service_Provider} learns about the {_Client} arising directly or indirectly from the {_Service_Provider}'s performance of the Services.

9.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

10.0.sec="{_Confidential_Information}" means all {material} {non-public} {business-related} information, written or oral{, whether or not it is marked as confidential}, disclosed or made available to the {_Service_Provider},{ directly or indirectly,} through any means of communication {or observation} by the {_Client}{ or any of its {_Affiliates} or representatives} to{ or for the benefit of} the {_Service_Provider}, but does not include information that

10.1.sec=is or becomes publicly known through no wrongful act of the {_Service_Provider},

10.2.sec=the {_Service_Provider} received in good faith on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the {_Client} or its Representatives,

10.3.sec=was in the {_Service_Provider}'s possession before its disclosure by the {_Client} or its Representatives,

10.4.sec=the {_Service_Provider} developed independently without breach of this agreement, or

10.5.sec=the {_Client} has explicitly approved, by {_Notice} to the {_Service_Provider}, for release to a third party.

10.=[Z/ol-a/s5]

11.sec="{_Consent}" means each license, permit, approval, consent, certificate, registration, order, or authorization from any {_Governmental_Authority} or any other Person that is needed to conduct some aspect of the {_Client}'s business.

12.sec="{_Consent_Fee}" means the amount required to pay to a third party that is providing any {_Consent} that is required for the performance of any Service.

13.sec="{_Control}" means, for a Person, the ownership interest in an entity that has the practical effect of giving that Person, either alone or with others, the majority voting interest in that entity, and the terms "{_Controlled}led" and "{_Control}ling" have comparable meanings.

14.0.sec="{_Deliverable}" means any

14.1.sec=deliverable described or referred to in a Statement of Work, and

14.2.sec=materials, data, or documentation developed, conceived, or reduced to practice, in whole or in part, by the {_Service_Provider} under either this agreement or any Statement of Work and used or intended to be used to provide the Services.

14.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

15.sec="{_Fees}" means collectively the {_Fees} (including any charges or expenses) for Services described in the corresponding Statement of Work.

16.0.sec="{_Governmental_Authority}" means

16.1.sec=the government of the United States or any other nation, or any of its or their geographical or political units or subdivisions, and

16.2.sec=any body, agency, tribunal, arbitrator, court, authority, or other entity that exercises executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory, or administrative powers or functions of, or relating to, government.

16.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

17.0.sec="{_Improvement}" means any improvement to

17.1.sec=the Services,

17.2.sec=the {_Deliverables},

17.3.sec=the {_Client}'s business processes or other the {_Client} operations,

17.4.sec=the {_Service_Provider}'s assets, business processes, or other the {_Service_Provider} operations, or

17.5.sec=any other aspect of the {_Service_Provider}'s operations relating to the Services that will enable the {_Service_Provider} or the {_Client} to maintain or enhance their respective competitive advantages.

17.=[Z/ol-a/s5]

18.0.sec="{_Improvement_Opportunity}" means any opportunity to implement any {_Improvements}, which may include

18.1.sec=the implementation of enhancements to the Services,

18.2.sec=the implementation of new or improved business, operational, or workflow management processes as part of the Services,

18.3.sec=the renegotiation or establishment of more economically favorable licensing or services arrangements with third parties, or

18.4.sec=the implementation of new or improved business, operational or workflow management processes by the {_Client} that will reduce the cost to the {_Client} of operating its business.

18.=[Z/ol-a/s4]

19.0.sec="{_Insolvency_Event}" means any of the following:

19.1.Ti=Insolvency

19.1.sec=The {_Service_Provider} admits in writing that it is insolvent or unable to pay its debts, or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due.

19.2.Ti=Bankruptcy

19.2.sec=The {_Service_Provider} files a voluntary petition, or one or more of its creditors file a petition, seeking its rehabilitation, liquidation, or reorganization under any {_Law} relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, or other relief of debtors and the petition is not removed within 60 {_Business_Days} of filing.

19.3.Ti=Receivership

19.3.sec=A receiver or other custodian is appointed to take possession of substantially all of the {_Service_Provider}'s assets.

19.4.Ti=Dissolution

19.4.sec=The {_Service_Provider} takes any action toward the dissolution or winding up of its affairs or the cessation or suspension of its activities.

19.5.Ti=Liquidation

19.5.sec=A court of competent jurisdiction enters a decree or order directing the winding up or liquidation of the {_Service_Provider} or of all or substantially all of its assets.

19.6.Ti=General Assignment

19.6.sec=The {_Service_Provider} makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors.

19.7.Ti=Attachment

19.7.sec=Any attachment, execution, or other judicial seizure is levied against all or substantially all of the {_Service_Provider}'s assets.

19.=[Z/ol-a/s7]

20.sec="{_Intellectual_Property_Rights}" means all rights in and to any intellectual property, including all extensions to and derivatives of that property.

21.0.sec="{_Law}" means

21.1.sec=any law (including the common law), statute, by-law, rule, regulation, order, ordinance, treaty, decree, judgment, and

21.2.sec=any official directive, protocol, code, guideline, notice, approval, order, policy, or other requirement of any {_Governmental_Authority} having the force of law.

21.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

22.0.sec="{_Legal_Change}" means any change in {_Law} that, directly or indirectly, affects or may affect, or relates or may relate to,

22.1.sec=any Work Product,

22.2.sec=the {_Service_Provider}'s delivery of the Services, or

22.3.sec=any other of the {_Service_Provider}'s obligations under this agreement.

22.=[Z/ol-a/s3]

23.sec="{_Notice}" means any notice, request, direction, or other document that a party can or must make or give under this agreement.

24.0.sec="Person" includes

24.1.sec=any corporation, {_Client}, limited liability {_Client}, partnership, {_Governmental_Authority}, joint venture, fund, trust, association, syndicate, organization, or other entity or group of persons, whether incorporated or not, and

24.2.sec=any individual.

24.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

25.sec="Personnel" means any employees, agents, or other Representatives of the {_Service_Provider} and of any {_Approved_Subcontractors} who are engaged in providing any of the Services.

26.sec="Plans" means business continuity and disaster recovery plans.

27.sec="Mandatory Change" means a modification of a Service that is the result of a change in the {_Law} that requires a change in the particular Service.

28.sec="Non-Mandatory Change" means any modification of a Service other than a Mandatory Change.

29.0.sec="Representative" means, for any Person,

29.1.sec=each director, officer, shareholder, partner, employee, agent, or professional advisor{ in connection with the transactions contemplated in this agreement}, and any other authorized representative, and

29.2.sec=that Person's {_Affiliates} and the directors, officers, shareholders, partners, employees, agents, or professional advisors{ in connection with the transactions contemplated in this agreement} of those {_Affiliates}.

29.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

30.sec="Restricted Period" means the period beginning on the date of termination or expiration of this agreement and ending {two} years thereafter.

31.sec="Service Provider Intellectual Property" means all Intellectual Property belonging to the {_Service_Provider}.

32.0.sec="Services" means, collectively,

32.1.sec=the services listed on the Schedule A (List of Services), and

32.2.sec=any {_Additional_Services},

32.00.sec=the details for each of which are set out in the corresponding Statement of Work, and includes all {_Deliverables}.

32.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

33.sec="Statement of Work" means a written statement of work, substantially in the form and format attached as Exhibit 1, that is agreed to between, and executed by an authorized representative of, each of the parties.

34.sec="Statement of Work Change" means any change to a Statement of Work signed by an authorized signing officer on behalf of each party.

35.sec="Subcontractor" means any Person that the {_Service_Provider} engages to perform Services under this agreement.

36.sec="Work Product" means all {_Deliverables} and {_Improvements} that the {_Service_Provider} or any of its {_Approved_Subcontractors} derive or develop in the course of delivering the Services or performing any other obligations under this agreement.

=[Z/f/ol/s36]
