Ti=General

1.Ti=Entire Agreement

1.sec=This agreement contains all the terms agreed to by the parties relating to its subject matter. It replaces all previous discussions, understandings, and agreements.

2.Ti=Further Assurances

2.sec=Each party, upon receipt of Notice from the other party, shall sign (or cause to be signed) all further documents, do (or cause to be done) all further acts, and provide all assurances as may reasonably be necessary or desirable to give effect to the terms of this agreement.

3.Ti=Amendment

3.sec=This agreement may only be amended by a written document signed by both parties.

4.Ti=Assignment

4.sec=The Service Provider may not assign this agreement or any of its rights or obligations under this agreement without the Client's prior written consent. The Client may assign this agreement or any of its rights or obligations under this agreement, effective upon Notice to the Service Provider.

5.Ti=No Partnership

5.sec=The Service Provider is an independent contractor. Nothing contained in this agreement creates a partnership, joint venture, principal-and-agent, or any similar relationship between the parties.

6.Ti=Third Party Beneficiaries

6.sec=The Indemnification terms of this agreement confer rights and remedies upon the Client's directors, officers, employees, shareholders, partners, agents or Affiliates. No Person other than the parties themselves and those beneficiaries has any rights or remedies under this agreement.

7.Ti=Payment of Expenses

7.sec=Each party is responsible for all costs (including legal Fees) and other expenses that it incurs in connection with the negotiation and preparation of this agreement.

8.Ti=Notices

8.1.Ti=Form of Notice

8.1.sec=All notices and other communications between the parties must be in writing.

8.2.Ti=Method of Notice

8.2.0.sec=Notices must be given by

8.2.1.sec=personal delivery,

8.2.2.sec=a nationally-recognized, next-day courier service,

8.2.3.sec=first-class registered or certified mail, postage prepaid

8.2.4.sec=fax or

8.2.5.sec=electronic mail

8.2.00.sec= to the party's address specified in this agreement, or to the address that a party has notified to be that party's address for the purposes of this section.

8.2.=[Z/ol-i/s5]

8.3.Ti=Receipt of Notice

8.3.sec=A Notice given in accordance with this agreement will be effective upon receipt by the party to which it is given or, if mailed, upon the earlier of receipt and the fifth Business Day following mailing.

8.=[Z/ol-a/3]

9.Ti=Remedies Cumulative

9.sec=Except as provided in section 27.4 (Exclusive Remedies), the rights and remedies available to a party under this agreement are cumulative and in addition to, not exclusive of or in substitution for, any rights or remedies otherwise available to that party.

10.Ti=Survival

10.sec=Sections 13.03 (Extension of Term), 15 (Service Provider's Warranties), 19 (Books and Records), 29 (Confidentiality), 22.02 (License of Service Provider Intellectual Property), 22.05 (Waiver of Moral Rights), 23.04 (Duration of Rights), 25 (Effect of Termination), 26 (Limitations and Exclusions of Liabilities), and 27 (Indemnification) survive the termination or expiration of this agreement.

11.Ti=Severability

11.sec=If any part of this agreement is declared unenforceable or invalid, the remainder will continue to be valid and enforceable.

12.Ti=Waiver

12.sec=A party's failure or neglect to enforce any of rights under this agreement will not be deemed to be a waiver of that party's rights.

13.Ti=Equitable Relief

13.sec=Service Provider acknowledges that its breach or threatened breach of any its obligations under section 19 (Confidentiality) would not be susceptible to adequate relief by way of monetary damages only. Accordingly, the Client may, in that case, apply to court for any applicable equitable remedies (including injunctive relief), without the need to post any security.

14.Ti=Force Majeure

14.sec=Neither party will be liable for any failure of or delay in the performance of any of its obligations under this agreement if its failure or delay is due to the occurrence of Force Majeure.

15.Ti=Governing Law

15.sec=This agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of {GOVERNING LAW STATE}, without regard to its conflict of laws rules.

16.Ti=Dispute Resolution

16.1.Ti=Arbitration

16.1.sec=Any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this agreement will be settled exclusively by arbitration in {STATE}, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect by {NUMBER OF ARBITRATORS} arbitrator(s).

16.2.Ti=No Punitive Damages

16.2.sec=The arbitrator(s) will not have the power to award punitive damages.

16.3.Ti=Judgment

16.3.sec=The successful party may enter the arbitral judgment in any court having jurisdiction.30.17. 

16.4.Ti=Waiver of Jury Trial

16.4.sec=Each party irrevocably waives its rights to trial by jury in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this agreement or the transactions relating to its subject matter.

16.=[Z/ol-a/4]

17.Ti=Interpretation

17.1.Ti=Currency

17.1.sec=Unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts expressed in this agreement refer to American currency.

17.2.Ti=Number and Gender

17.sec=Unless the context requires otherwise, words importing the singular number include the plural and vice versa, words importing gender include all genders.

17.3.Ti=Headings

17.3.sec=The headings used in this agreement and its division into articles, sections, schedules, exhibits, appendices,} and other subdivisions do not affect its interpretation.

17.4.Ti=Internal References

17.4.sec=References in this agreement to articles, sections, and other subdivisions are to those parts of this agreement.

17.5.Ti=Calculation of Time

17.5.sec=In this agreement, a period of days begins on the first day after the event that began the period and ends at 5:00 p.m. {TIME ZONE} Time on the last day of the period. If any period of time is to expire, or any action or event is to occur, on a day that is not a Business Day, the period expires, or the action or event is considered to occur, at 5:00 p.m. {TIME ZONE} Time on the next Business Day.

17.6.Ti=Construction of Terms

17.6.sec=The parties have each participated in settling the terms of this agreement. Any rule of legal interpretation to the effect that any ambiguity is to be resolved against the drafting party will not apply in interpreting this agreement.

17.7.Ti=Conflict of Terms

17.7.sec=If there is any inconsistency between the terms of this agreement and any Statement of Work, the terms of this agreement will prevail. The parties shall take all necessary steps to conform the inconsistent terms to the terms of this agreement.

17.=[Z/ol-a/7]

18.Ti=Schedules and Exhibits

18.0.sec=The following are attached to and form part of this agreement:

18.1.sec=Schedule A: List of Services

18.2.sec=Exhibit 1: Form of Statement of Work

18.3.sec=Exhibit 2: Form of Change Order

18.=[Z/ol-a/s3]

19.Ti=Counterparts

19.sec=This agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which is an original and all of which taken together form one single document.

19.Ti=Effectiveness of Agreement

19.sec=This agreement is effective as of the date shown at the top of the first page, even if any signatures are made after that date.

=[Z/f/ol/19]
