Ti=Interpretation

1.Ti=Currency

1.sec=Unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts expressed in this agreement refer to American currency.

2.Ti=Number and Gender

2.sec=Unless the context requires otherwise, words importing the singular number include the plural and vice versa, words importing gender include all genders.

3.Ti=Headings

3.sec=The headings used in this agreement and its division into articles, sections, schedules, exhibits, appendices,} and other subdivisions do not affect its interpretation.

4.Ti=Internal References

4.sec=References in this agreement to articles, sections, and other subdivisions are to those parts of this agreement.

5.Ti=Calculation of Time

5.sec=In this agreement, a period of days begins on the first day after the event that began the period and ends at {CalculationOfTime.PeriodEndsAt.Time} on the last day of the period. If any period of time is to expire, or any action or event is to occur, on a day that is not a {_Business_Day}, the period expires, or the action or event is considered to occur, at {CalculationOfTime.PeriodEndsAt.Time} on the next {_Business_Day}.

6.Ti=Construction of Terms

6.sec=The parties have each participated in settling the terms of this agreement. Any rule of legal interpretation to the effect that any ambiguity is to be resolved against the drafting party will not apply in interpreting this agreement.

7.Ti=Conflict of Terms

7.sec=If there is any inconsistency between the terms of this agreement and any {_Statement_of_Work}, the terms of this agreement will prevail. The parties shall take all necessary steps to conform the inconsistent terms to the terms of this agreement.

=[Z/ol/7]
