Ti=Subcontracting

1.Ti=Approved Subcontractors

1.sec=The Service Provider may delegate or subcontract any of its obligations relating to the Services, but only to Approved Subcontractors.

2.Ti=Due Diligence

2.sec=The Service Provider will use reasonable efforts to support any due diligence the Client may elect to conduct on any proposed subcontractor.

3.Ti=Client's Point of Contact

3.sec=The Service Provider will at all times be the Client's sole point of contact regarding the Services provided by any Approved Subcontractor under this agreement.

4.Ti=Transfer of Subcontracting Agreement

4.sec=The Service Provider shall ensure that each subcontracting agreement with an Approved Subcontractor is transferable to the Client upon the expiration or termination of this agreement.

5.Ti=Service Provider's Continuing Liability

5.sec=The subcontracting any of the Service Provider's obligations under this agreement will not relieve the Service Provider from any obligation or liability under this agreement. The Service Provider will remain responsible for all Services performed by each Approved Subcontractor and its and their respective agents and employees to the same extent as if those Services were performed by the Service Provider. Their work will be deemed to be work performed by the Service Provider.

6.Ti=Liability for Acts of Approved Subcontractors

6.sec=The Service Provider will be liable for all acts and omissions of Approved Subcontractors in performing the Services. Any breach by an Approved Subcontractor of the obligations under this agreement will be deemed to be a breach by the Service Provider.

7.Ti=Notice of Approved Subcontractor's Breach

7.sec=The Service Provider shall give the Client Notice of any actual or suspected material breach by an Approved Subcontractor of any of its obligations in providing Services, and provide the Client with any further information that the Client may reasonably request.

8.Ti=Request for Removal of Approved Subcontractor

8.0.sec=The Client may by Notice request the removal of an Approved Subcontractor or object to the Service Provider's use of an Approved Subcontractor for which the Client's approval was required if

8.1.sec=the Client determines that the continued performance of functions or work by an Approved Subcontractor will prejudice the Client's interests,

8.2.sec=an Approved Subcontractor's performance has been materially deficient or has resulted in a material breach under this agreement, or

8.3.sec=there have been material misrepresentations by or in connection with the Approved Subcontractor.

8.=[Z/ol-a/s3]

9.Ti=Requirement to Remove Approved Subcontractor

9.sec=Upon such a request for removal, the Service Provider shall investigate the matters stated in the Client's Notice and discuss its findings with the Client. If the Client, in good faith and acting reasonably, still requires termination of any further involvement of the Approved Subcontractor, the Service Provider shall terminate the Approved Subcontractor's subcontract. Such termination will occur promptly, having regard to the need to maintain continuity in the provision of the Services, the time required by the Service Provider to replace such entity, and the impact of continuing to use the Approved Subcontractor in the performance of the Services.

10.Ti=Liability for Approved Subcontractor's Claims

10.sec=The Client will not be responsible for any claims made by any Approved Subcontractor in connection with the Service Provider's removal of, or the termination of its subcontract with, the Approved Subcontractor.

=[Z/ol/10]
