Ti=Personnel Providing Services

1.Ti=Skilled Personnel

1.sec=The {_Service_Provider} shall retain and employ Personnel who have the experience, skill, diligence, and expertise necessary and appropriate to perform the Services in accordance with the standards and levels of service required under this agreement.

2.Ti=Supervision of Personnel

2.sec=The {_Service_Provider} will be responsible for all Personnel assigned to provide Services to the {_Client}.

3.Ti=Background Checks

3.sec=The {_Service_Provider} shall, where permitted by applicable {_Law} and with applicable consents from the affected individuals, complete background checks on all Personnel who have or will access to any {_Client_Data} or who are directly engaged in performing any of the Services. At the {_Client}'s request and at its cost, the {_Service_Provider} shall update any background checks.

4.Ti=Additional Checks

4.sec=At the {_Client}'s request, the {_Service_Provider} shall perform additional criminal records and credit checks on Personnel. Such additional checks will be at the {_Client}'s cost, unless it is a requirement under a particular Statement of Work.

5.Ti=Failing Background Check

5.sec=The {_Service_Provider} shall not permit any individual who fails a background check to provide or continue to provide Services under any Statement of Work or to have access to any {_Client_Data}.

6.Ti=Assignment of Personnel

6.sec=The {_Service_Provider} shall assign Personnel to a Statement of Work on such basis (such as full-time or otherwise) as needed to ensure that the Services contemplated under the Statement of Work are provided in an efficient and timely manner.

7.Ti=Key Personnel

7.sec=The {_Service_Provider} shall not without good cause replace, without the {_Client}'s consent, any Personnel identified in a Statement of Work as "key personnel."

8.Ti=Review of Staffing Levels

8.sec=The parties shall regularly review all staffing levels across all Statement of Works to identify appropriate staffing assignments, adjustments, and corrective actions, if required. The parties shall cooperate to minimize any adverse impact on the scheduled timelines and projected costs of any Statement of Work that may be affected.

9.Ti=Replacement Request

9.sec=The {_Client} may request replacement of any Personnel assigned to a Project for good cause. In that case, the {_Service_Provider} shall, within {five} {_Business_Days} following receipt of the {_Client}'s request, use commercially diligent efforts to provide substitute Personnel of sufficient skill, knowledge, and training, subject to their availability.

10.Ti=Exclusivity of Personnel

10.sec=Unless the parties agree otherwise in writing, no Personnel will be assigned to projects for the {_Service_Provider}'s other clients during the time they are providing the Services for the {_Client}; they will be dedicated exclusively to the {_Client}'s Services.

11.Ti=Obligations as Employer

11.0.sec=The {_Service_Provider} is responsible for setting compensation rates and methods of pay for the Personnel. The {_Service_Provider} shall

11.1.sec=determine and pay all wages and salaries,

11.2.sec=provide benefits, as are deemed necessary or desirable,

11.3.sec=comply with all applicable {_Laws}, and

11.4.sec=file all applicable reports with the appropriate Governmental Authorities

11.00.sec=relating to the Services as required by applicable {_Law}.

11.=[Z/ol-a/s4]

12.Ti=Client Input

12.sec=The {_Client} shall direct the daily responsibilities of Personnel only to the extent necessary to perform the Services and for security purposes, but not in the capacity as engaging Personnel for work. The {_Client} shall not evaluate, test, counsel, or discipline Personnel.

=[Z/f/ol/12]
