Note=From http://www.contractstandards.com/contracts/master-services-agreement, with kind permission.  

Ti=Master Services Agreement

0.Ti=</i>

0.1.sec=This Master Services Agreement is made on {AGREEMENT DATE} "Effective Date")} between {SERVICE PROVIDER NAME}, a {CORPORATE JURISDICTION} corporation with its principal place of business at {PARTY ONE ADDRESS} (the "Service Provider") and {CLIENT NAME}, a {CORPORATE JURISDICTION} corporation with its principal place of business at {CLIENT ADDRESS} (the "Client").

0.2.sec=The parties agree as follows (the capitalized terms used in this agreement, in addition to those above, being defined in section 29 (Definitions)):

0.=[Z/paras/s2]

1.Ti=Provision of Services

1.sec=The Service Provider shall provide the Services to the Client generally in accordance with the terms of this agreement and, for each specific Service, in accordance with the applicable Statement of Work.

2.Ti=Key Terms

2.1.Ti=Description of Services

2.1.sec={SUMMARY OF DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES}

2.2.Ti=Initial Term

2.2.sec={INITIAL TERM}

2.3.Ti=Renewal Terms

2.3.sec={RENEWAL TERM}

2.4.Ti=Start Date

2.4.sec={START DATE}

2.5.Ti=Fees

2.5.sec=Fees specified in each SOW

2.=[Z/ol-a/5]

3.Ti=Services under Statements of Work

3.1.Ti=Statements of Work

3.1.0.sec=Each Service obligation will be the subject of its own Statement of Work setting forth, among other things, the following:

3.1.1.sec=a full description of the particular Service,

3.1.2.sec=the applicable Fees and payment schedule,

3.1.3.sec=a description of the Deliverables and the related Acceptance Criteria,

3.1.4.sec=the materials to be provided by each party, and

3.1.5.sec=a timeline, if applicable.

3.1.=[Z/ol-a/s5]

3.2.Ti=Performance

3.2.sec=The Service Provider shall provide the Services to the Client in the time and manner specified in the relevant Statement of Work.

3.3.Ti=Start Date

3.3.sec=The Service Provider has no obligation to begin providing any particular Service until the applicable Statement of Work has been signed.

3.4.Ti=Deliverables

3.4.sec=By accepting a Statement of Work, the Service Provider agrees to provide the Deliverables that are detailed in it. The Client will advise the Service Provider in a timely manner whether the Service has met the Acceptance Criteria described in the applicable Statement of Work.

3.5.Ti=SOWs as Separate Agreements

3.5.sec=Upon signature by both parties, a Statement of Work will become a part of this agreement but may be enforced as a separate and independent agreement between the parties. In particular, neither party is required to terminate this agreement or any other Statement of Work in order to enforce its rights under a particular Statement of Work.

3.6.Ti=Capacity Issues

3.6.0.sec=If the Service Provider determines that the activities to be performed by it exceed the reasonable capacity of the resources immediately available to it,

3.6.1.sec=the Client, acting reasonably, shall prioritize its requirements for Services, and

3.6.2.sec=the Service Provider shall endeavor to perform the Services in keeping with the order of priority so specified by the Client.

3.6.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

3.7.Ti=Obtaining Consents

3.7.sec=If the performance of a Service requires that a Consent be obtained, each party shall use reasonable efforts to obtain it and to negotiate, if applicable, the payment of the related Consent Fee. The Client shall pay up to an aggregate amount of ${MAXIMUM AGGREGATE CONSENT FEES} for any Consent Fee. The Service Provider will be liable to pay any Consent Fees in excess of that amount.

3.8.Ti=Impracticability

3.8.0.sec=A Service Provider will not be required to provide any Service to the extent that the performance of the Service

3.8.1.sec=becomes impracticable as a result of a cause or causes outside the reasonable control of the Service Provider, including unfeasible technological requirements, or

3.8.2.sec= would require the Service Provider to violate any applicable Laws or would result in the breach of any contract by which it is bound relating to the Services.

3.8.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

3.=[Z/ol/8]

4.Ti=Standards of Service

4.1.Ti=Service Levels

4.1.0.sec=The Service Provider shall

4.1.1.sec=ensure that each Service is provided to the Client on time, on budget, promptly, efficiently, and otherwise in accordance with the applicable Statement of Work, and

4.1.2.sec=otherwise provide the Services in a professional and ethical manner, generally consistent with past practice and consistent with the level of care and skill that a reasonably prudent and qualified service provider would exercise in comparable circumstances.

4.1.=[Z/ol/s2]

4.2.Ti=Sufficient Resources

4.2.sec=The Service Provider shall maintain sufficient resources to perform its obligations under this agreement.

4.3.Ti=Responsibility for Work

4.3.0.sec=The Service Provider is responsible for the performance and project management of

4.3.1.sec=its own work in providing the Services, and

4.3.2.sec=the work performed by any Approved Subcontractors.

4.3.=[Z/ol/s2]

4.4.Ti=Client Policies

4.4.sec=If the Client does not have published policies, procedures, or practices, the Service Provider shall use reasonable efforts to provide Services in accordance with the Client's policies, procedures, and practices in effect as of the Effective Date.

4.5.Ti=Performance Metrics

4.5.sec=The Client may set specific performance metrics for a given Service in the corresponding Statement of Work.

4.=[Z/ol/5]

5.Ti=Personnel Providing Services

5.1.Ti=Skilled Personnel

5.1.sec=The Service Provider shall retain and employ Personnel who have the experience, skill, diligence, and expertise necessary and appropriate to perform the Services in accordance with the standards and levels of service required under this agreement.

5.2.Ti=Supervision of Personnel

5.2.sec=The Service Provider will be responsible for all Personnel assigned to provide Services to the Client.

5.3.Ti=Background Checks

5.3.sec=The Service Provider shall, where permitted by applicable Law and with applicable consents from the affected individuals, complete background checks on all Personnel who have or will access to any Client Data or who are directly engaged in performing any of the Services. At the Client's request and at its cost, the Service Provider shall update any background checks.

5.4.Ti=Additional Checks

5.4.sec=At the Client's request, the Service Provider shall perform additional criminal records and credit checks on Personnel. Such additional checks will be at the Client's cost, unless it is a requirement under a particular Statement of Work.

5.5.Ti=Failing Background Check

5.5.sec=The Service Provider shall not permit any individual who fails a background check to provide or continue to provide Services under any Statement of Work or to have access to any Client Data.

5.6.Ti=Assignment of Personnel

5.6.sec=The Service Provider shall assign Personnel to a Statement of Work on such basis (such as full-time or otherwise) as needed to ensure that the Services contemplated under the Statement of Work are provided in an efficient and timely manner.

5.7.Ti=Key Personnel

5.7.sec=The Service Provider shall not without good cause replace, without the Client's consent, any Personnel identified in a Statement of Work as "key personnel."

5.8.Ti=Review of Staffing Levels

5.8.sec=The parties shall regularly review all staffing levels across all Statement of Works to identify appropriate staffing assignments, adjustments, and corrective actions, if required. The parties shall cooperate to minimize any adverse impact on the scheduled timelines and projected costs of any Statement of Work that may be affected.

5.9.Ti=Replacement Request

5.9.sec=The Client may request replacement of any Personnel assigned to a Project for good cause. In that case, the Service Provider shall, within {five} Business Days following receipt of the Client's request, use commercially diligent efforts to provide substitute Personnel of sufficient skill, knowledge, and training, subject to their availability.

5.10.Ti=Exclusivity of Personnel

5.10.sec=Unless the parties agree otherwise in writing, no Personnel will be assigned to projects for the Service Provider's other clients during the time they are providing the Services for the Client; they will be dedicated exclusively to the Client's Services.

5.11.Ti=Obligations as Employer

5.11.0.sec=The Service Provider is responsible for setting compensation rates and methods of pay for the Personnel. The Service Provider shall

5.11.1.sec=determine and pay all wages and salaries,

5.11.2.sec=provide benefits, as are deemed necessary or desirable,

5.11.3.sec=comply with all applicable Laws, and

5.11.4.sec=file all applicable reports with the appropriate Governmental Authorities

5.11.00.sec=relating to the Services as required by applicable Law.

5.11.=[Z/ol-a/s4]

5.12.Ti=Client Input

5.12.sec=The Client shall direct the daily responsibilities of Personnel only to the extent necessary to perform the Services and for security purposes, but not in the capacity as engaging Personnel for work. The Client shall not evaluate, test, counsel, or discipline Personnel.

5.=[Z/ol/12]

6.Ti=Resources for Service Provider

6.0.sec=In order to enable the Service Provider to meet its obligations under this agreement, the Client shall

6.1.sec=ensure that the physical and technical environments at its facilities, to the extent those environments are within its control and related to the Services, are appropriate,

6.2.sec=provide the Service Provider with all necessary information and documentation, and

6.3.sec=make available, as reasonably requested by the Service Provider, sufficient resources and make and give timely decisions, approvals, and acceptances.

6.=[Z/ol/s3]

7.Ti=Improvement Opportunities

7.1.Ti=Identification

7.1.sec=The Service Provider shall implement formal processes to proactively identify, investigate, and analyze opportunities to implement Improvement Opportunities and identify issues that could adversely affect the overall success of the parties' relationship.

7.2.Ti=Objectives

7.2.0.sec=The overall objectives of the identification and implementation of Improvement Opportunities are to

7.2.1.sec=continually improve the quality of the Deliverables, and suggest new Deliverables (including new predictive models that could assist the Client to enable the Client to maintain or enhance their competitive advantages),

7.2.2.sec=continually improve the quality of the Services and suggest new Services,

7.2.3.sec=drive additional revenues to, or cost savings for, the Client through technological innovation,

7.2.4.sec=optimize the Client's business and technical assets through shared or leveraged services, expanded re-use, and consolidation, and

7.2.5.sec=provide increased business operational and technical resilience to continue the timely delivery of Services despite unforeseen external events.

7.2.=[Z/ol-a/s5]

Note=Used numbers, not (a), (b) for 7.3.1.sec etc.

7.3.Ti=Implementation

7.3.1.0.sec=If the Service Provider determines that an Improvement Opportunity is technically possible and could result in meeting one or more of the objectives set out in section 7.02 (Objectives), and

7.3.1.1.sec=if its implementation would require an amendment to this agreement, then it will be implemented in accordance with a Change Order, but

7.3.1.2.sec=if its implementation would not require a Change Order, then the Service Provider shall promptly implement it.

7.3.1.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

7.3.2.sec=The Service Provider shall give Notice to the Client promptly following the implementation of an Improvement Opportunity. The parties, acting reasonably, shall decide upon the appropriate adjustment to the Services and applicable specifications or other performance standards to reflect the implementation of the Improvement Opportunity following its implementation.

7.3.=[Z/ol/s2]

7.4.Ti=Tracking

7.4.sec=The Service Provider shall deliver quarterly written reports to the Client sufficient to enable it to track the implementation of Improvement Opportunities and reconcile the expected potential savings with the actual related savings.

7.=[Z/ol/4]

8.Ti=Additional Services

8.1.Ti=Request for Additional Services

8.1.0.sec=The Client may from time to time by Notice ask the Service Provider to provide Additional Services. The Service Provider, acting reasonably, shall then promptly

8.1.1.sec=assess the Client's request and advise the Client if there are any circumstances preventing it from complying with the request,

8.1.2.sec=advise the Client of the period for which the Service Provider would be prepared to provide the Additional Services, and

8.1.3.sec=if applicable, provide the Client with a written quote of the basis upon which the fs for these Additional Services will be charged.

8.1.=[Z/ol-a/s3]

8.2.Ti=Description of Additional Services

8.2.sec=If the parties agree to the Client's request for Additional Services, the parties will sign a Statement of Work containing all details of the Additional Services.

8.=[Z/ol/2]

9.Ti=Change Requests

9.1.Ti=Change Requests for Non-Mandatory Changes

9.1.1.Ti=Client Change Request

9.1.1.sec=The Client may from time to time make a Change Request for a Non-Mandatory Change by giving Notice to the Service Provider, including all necessary details. The parties shall then negotiate in good faith to come to an agreement to amend the corresponding Statement of Work, which the parties acknowledge may include charging a premium, on terms that are acceptable to the parties, acting reasonably.

9.1.2.Ti=Consequential Amendments

9.1.2.sec=If the parties agree to the Change Request, the description of Services in the corresponding Statement of Work will be amended accordingly.

9.1.3.Ti=Additional Costs

9.1.3.sec=Any additional costs that the Service Provider incurs to implement the Change Request will be the Client's responsibility, which the Client will owe to the Service Provider in addition to any amended Fees resulting from this Change Request.

9.1.4.Ti=No Agreement as to Terms

9.1.4.sec=The Client acknowledges that the parties may not reach an agreement as to such a Change Request. In that case, the Service Provider will have no liability or obligation to the Client in connection with this Change Request.

9.1.5.Ti=Service Provider Change Request

9.1.5.sec=The parties acknowledge that the Service Provider may make a Change Request in the manner of performing a Service if the Service Provider is making similar changes in performing similar services for{ itself and} other similar clients. In that case, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to come to an agreement to amend the corresponding Statement of Work in response to this Change Request, which may not, however, include any change to the Fees charged for the corresponding Service.

9.1.=[Z/ol-a/5]

9.2.Ti=Change Requests for Mandatory Changes

9.2.1.Ti=Negotiation

9.2.1.sec=The Client may from time to time make a Change Request for a Mandatory Change by Notice to the Service Provider, including all necessary details. The parties shall then negotiate in good faith and come to an agreement to amend the Statement of Work for the affected Service on terms that are acceptable to the parties, acting reasonably.

9.2.2.Ti=No Premium for Changed Services

9.2.2.sec=The parties acknowledge that a Change Request for a Mandatory Change may include charging a premium for the changed Services. If, however, the Mandatory Change also requires a change to the Service Provider's business, the Service Provider may not charge any premium in providing the Services under the Mandatory Change Request.

9.2.3.Ti=No Agreement as to Terms

9.2.3.sec=If the parties fail to come to an agreement as to the description of or Fees for a Mandatory Change, the most recent details submitted by the Service Provider will prevail.

9.2.=[Z/ol-a/3]

9.3.Ti=Legal Changes

9.3.1.Ti=Notice of Legal Changes

9.3.1.sec=Each party shall promptly identify and give Notice to the other of any Legal Changes of which it becomes aware. The Service Provider and the Client shall then work together to identify the impact of any Legal Change on how the Client uses and how the Service Provider delivers the Services.

9.3.2.Ti=Continuing Obligation

9.3.2.sec=Unless otherwise expressly required by a Legal Change in Law, the Service Provider shall perform the Services in accordance with the specific Service performance requirements and specifications, quality standards, or minimum levels of performance or compliance that are stipulated in each applicable Statement of Work, regardless of any such Legal Change.

9.3.3.Ti=Workarounds

9.3.3.sec=If any Legal Change prevents the Service Provider from performing any of its obligations under this agreement, the Service Provider shall develop and, upon the Client's approval, implement a suitable workaround until such time as it can perform its obligations without a workaround, If, however, the workaround results or would result in a material increase in any Fees payable, the Client may terminate either this agreement or the affected portion of the Services upon {30} days' Notice to the Service Provider with no cure period. Such a termination will be treated as a termination under section 24.1 (Termination upon Notice), and the Client will have no liability to the Service Provider for any termination Fees or penalty of any kind. For purposes of this paragraph, a "material increase" in Fees is one where it would be uneconomic for the Client to continue the procurement of the relevant portion of the Services, as determined by the Client, having regard to its business plans for those Services as of the Effective Date.

9.3.4.Ti=Adjustments re Workarounds

9.3.4.sec=If the Client does not exercise its termination right under the immediately preceding paragraph, upon the implementation of the workaround the parties shall negotiate and implement an equitable adjustment to the affected applicable Fees.

9.3.=[Z/ol-a/4]

9.4.Ti=Inability to Provide Services

9.4.sec=If the Service Provider reasonably believes that it is unable to provide any Service because of a failure to obtain necessary Consents or because of impracticability, the parties shall cooperate to determine the best alternative approach. Until an alternative approach is found or the problem otherwise resolved to the parties' satisfaction, the Service Provider shall use reasonable efforts to continue providing the Service. To the extent that an agreed-upon alternative approach requires payment of an amount to a third party in excess of the amount stipulated in the applicable Statement of Work, the parties shall share equally that excess cost.

9.=[Z/ol/4]

10.Ti=Subcontracting

10.1.Ti=Approved Subcontractors

10.1.sec=The Service Provider may delegate or subcontract any of its obligations relating to the Services, but only to Approved Subcontractors.

10.2.Ti=Due Diligence

10.2.sec=The Service Provider will use reasonable efforts to support any due diligence the Client may elect to conduct on any proposed subcontractor.

10.3.Ti=Client's Point of Contact

10.3.sec=The Service Provider will at all times be the Client's sole point of contact regarding the Services provided by any Approved Subcontractor under this agreement.

10.4.Ti=Transfer of Subcontracting Agreement

10.4.sec=The Service Provider shall ensure that each subcontracting agreement with an Approved Subcontractor is transferable to the Client upon the expiration or termination of this agreement.

10.5.Ti=Service Provider's Continuing Liability

10.5.sec=The subcontracting any of the Service Provider's obligations under this agreement will not relieve the Service Provider from any obligation or liability under this agreement. The Service Provider will remain responsible for all Services performed by each Approved Subcontractor and its and their respective agents and employees to the same extent as if those Services were performed by the Service Provider. Their work will be deemed to be work performed by the Service Provider.

10.6.Ti=Liability for Acts of Approved Subcontractors

10.6.sec=The Service Provider will be liable for all acts and omissions of Approved Subcontractors in performing the Services. Any breach by an Approved Subcontractor of the obligations under this agreement will be deemed to be a breach by the Service Provider.

10.7.Ti=Notice of Approved Subcontractor's Breach

10.7.sec=The Service Provider shall give the Client Notice of any actual or suspected material breach by an Approved Subcontractor of any of its obligations in providing Services, and provide the Client with any further information that the Client may reasonably request.

10.8.Ti=Request for Removal of Approved Subcontractor

10.8.0.sec=The Client may by Notice request the removal of an Approved Subcontractor or object to the Service Provider's use of an Approved Subcontractor for which the Client's approval was required if

10.8.1.sec=the Client determines that the continued performance of functions or work by an Approved Subcontractor will prejudice the Client's interests,

10.8.2.sec=an Approved Subcontractor's performance has been materially deficient or has resulted in a material breach under this agreement, or

10.8.3.sec=there have been material misrepresentations by or in connection with the Approved Subcontractor.

10.8.=[Z/ol-a/s3]

10.9.Ti=Requirement to Remove Approved Subcontractor

10.9.sec=Upon such a request for removal, the Service Provider shall investigate the matters stated in the Client's Notice and discuss its findings with the Client. If the Client, in good faith and acting reasonably, still requires termination of any further involvement of the Approved Subcontractor, the Service Provider shall terminate the Approved Subcontractor's subcontract. Such termination will occur promptly, having regard to the need to maintain continuity in the provision of the Services, the time required by the Service Provider to replace such entity, and the impact of continuing to use the Approved Subcontractor in the performance of the Services.

10.10.Ti=Liability for Approved Subcontractor's Claims

10.10.sec=The Client will not be responsible for any claims made by any Approved Subcontractor in connection with the Service Provider's removal of, or the termination of its subcontract with, the Approved Subcontractor.

10.=[Z/ol/10]

11.Ti=Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Planning

11.1.Ti=Responsibility

11.1.sec=The Service Provider will be responsible for business continuity and disaster recovery planning, testing, implementation, and execution in connection with all Services and Work Product. The Service Provider shall provide to the Client a summary of its Plans upon request.

11.2.Ti=Requirements of Plans

11.2.0.sec=The plans will

11.2.1.sec=address all critical functions and operations of the Services,

11.2.2.sec=specify recovery time frames for each critical function and operation used by the Client,

11.2.3.sec=be thoroughly tested at least annually, and

11.2.4.sec=be regularly updated, as needed.

11.2.=[Z/ol-a/s4]

11.3.Ti=Cooperation with Client

11.3.sec=The Service Provider shall cooperate reasonably with the Client in efforts to coordinate the operation of its plans with the Client's plans.

11.4.Ti=Activation of Plans

11.4.sec=The Service Provider shall inform the Client as soon as possible if an event occurs that requires the activation of any of the Service Provider's Plans that affects its delivery of the Services. The Service Provider shall in that case provide to the Client a summary of the circumstances, impacts, outcomes, and planned mitigation solutions against future similar events, within {60} days of the occurrence.

11.=[Z/ol/4]

12.Ti=Fees and Pricing

12.1.Ti=Fees

12.1.sec=The Client shall pay the required Fees under each Statement of Work to the Service Provider monthly. Each invoice will be accompanied by reasonable documentation or other reasonable explanation supporting the charges noted in the invoice. Subject to the immediately following section (Most Favored Terms), each Fee is fixed. The Client will not be liable to pay any amount that is not identified in the applicable Statement of Work. Payment is due {45} days after the invoice date.

12.2.Ti=Most Favored Terms

12.2.1.Ti=General Principle

12.2.1.sec=The Service Provider shall provide the Services on terms, including price, that are at least as favorable as those made available to its other clients for substantially equivalent or lower volume purchases.

12.2.2.Ti=Specific Requirements

12.2.2.0.sec=In particular, if the Service Provider provides services to any client that are the same as or substantially similar to the Services on terms that are more favorable than the terms under this agreement, then the Service Provider shall

12.2.2.1.sec=(i) immediately pay to the Client, or credit to the Client against any amount(s) otherwise payable by the Client to the Service Provider under this agreement, an amount that is equal to the difference between the prices at which the Service Provider previously made available to its clients the same or substantially similar services and the prices at which the Service Provider made available to the Client the corresponding Services, and

12.2.2.2.sec= (ii) thereafter provide the Services to the Client on such more favorable terms for substantially equivalent or lower volume purchases.

12.2.2.=[Z/ol-i/s2]

12.2.3.Ti=Confirmation of Favored Terms

12.2.3.sec=Within {30} days of each anniversary of the Effective Date, the Service Provider shall deliver to the Client written confirmation that the Service Provider has complied with the terms of this section (Most Favored Terms) during the one-year period preceding the date of the confirmation.

12.2.=[Z/ol-a/3]

12.3.Ti=Pricing Adjustments

12.3.sec=If, in order to comply with any non-U.S. legal requirement, some of the services provided outside the U.S. need to be performed on a basis other than cost, the parties shall adjust the pricing for those Services in a manner that is consistent with theintention of this agreement.

12.=[Z/ol/3]

13.Ti=Payment Obligations

13.1.Ti=Invoices

13.1.sec=The Service Provider shall invoice the Client monthly for all fees and other amounts that the Client owes under this agreement. The Client shall pay the invoice amounts within {30} days of the invoice date.

13.2.Ti=Client's Right of Set-off

13.2.sec=The Client may set off against the Fees or any other amounts payable under this agreement, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, any amount owing by the Service Provider, but only if the Client provides the Service Provider with reasonable prior Notice of its intention to do so, together with an explanation of the basis upon which it is exercising its right. Any exercise of this right of set-off will correspondingly reduce the amount that the Client owes to the Service Provider.

13.3.Ti=Payment Net of Taxes

13.3.sec=All payments owed by the Client are exclusive of taxes. The Client shall pay, and the Service Provider shall collect and remit, any taxes payable.

13.4.Ti=Late Payments

13.4.sec=Any amount not paid when due will bear interest from the due date until paid at a rate equal to {1}% per month ({12.68}% annually) or the maximum allowed by law, whichever is less.

13.=[Z/ol/4]

14.Ti=Term

14.1.Ti=Initial Term

14.1.sec=The initial term of this agreement will begin on {TERM START DATE} and end on {TERM END DATE}, unless terminated earlier.

14.2.Ti=Renewal Terms

14.2.sec=Following the initial term, this agreement will automatically renew for successive {RENEWAL TERM PERIODS} terms, unless terminated earlier. If a party elects not to renew this agreement, that party shall provide Notice of that intention to the other party at least {NON-RENEWAL NOTICE PERIOD} days' before the renewal date.

14.3.Ti=Extension of Term

14.3.sec=The parties will be deemed to have extended this agreement in connection with a specific Service if the Statement of Work for the Service specifies a completion date beyond the expiration date of this agreement.

14.4.Ti=Early Termination of Specific Services

14.4.sec=The parties may agree on an earlier expiration date respecting a specific Service by specifying the date on the Statement of Work for that Service. Services will be provided up to and including the date set forth in the applicable Statement of Work, subject to earlier termination as provided in this agreement.

14.=[Z/ol/4]

15.Ti=Service Provider's Representations and Warranties

15.0.sec=The Service Provider represents and warrants to the Client as follows, acknowledging that the Client is relying on these representations and warranties:

15.1.Ti=No Conflicts

15.1.sec=The Service Provider is under no restriction or obligation that may affect the performance of its obligations under this agreement.

15.2.Ti=Consent and Other Authorizations

15.2.sec=The Service Provider holds all Consents and other authorizations necessary to provide the Services to the Client under this agreement.

15.3.Ti=Expertise

15.3.sec=The Service Provider is an expert in the field of {DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE PROVIDER EXPERTISE} and has and shall have, during the term of this agreement, the technology, Personnel, and systems necessary to perform its obligations under this agreement.

15.4.Ti=No Benefit

15.4.sec=Neither the Service Provider nor any of its Representatives has provided, and none of them shall provide, directly or indirectly, any benefit or other material gain to any employee of the Client or any Approved Subcontractor in connection with the negotiation and signing of this agreement.

15.5.Ti=Use of Third Party Software

15.5.sec=The Service Provider holds proper and valid licences of all third party software that it uses in providing the Services, or that it may supply in providing the Services. The Service Provider may, by the terms of its licenses, allow the Client, acting in accordance with this agreement, to use such third party software.

15.=[Z/ol/5]

16.Ti=Service Provider's Warranties

16.1.Ti=Warranty as to Services and Work Product

16.1.0.sec=The Service Provider warrants that the Services and all Work Product will substantially comply in all material respects with the specifications and other requirements set forth in the applicable Statements of Work. Further, the Service Provider warrants that all Work Product

16.1.1.sec= will be free of any mortgages, security interests, or liens that would or may affect the Client's ability to use the Deliverables, except that this clause does not make any warranties regarding any Intellectual Property Rights,

16.1.2.sec=(b) will be interoperable with other Deliverables if interoperability is required in the applicable Statement of Work, and

16.1.3.sec=(c) to the extent the Work Product contains any open source software, its inclusion was clearly detailed in the applicable Statement of Work and will not result in any obligation upon the Client to license any software included in the Work Product.
16.1.=[Z/ol-a/s3]

16.2.Ti=Unsatisfactory Services or Deliverables

16.2.sec=The Service Provider shall use reasonable efforts to correct any Services or Work Product that do not comply with the warranties contained in this section 16 but only if the Client gives Notice to the Service Provider of noncompliance within {30} days after performance relating to the particular Service or Work Product.

16.3.Ti=No Breach of Third Party Rights

16.3.0.sec=The Service Provider warrants that none of the Services or Work Product will infringe, violate, interfere with, or harm any rights (including any Intellectual Property Rights) of any Person, except to the extent that any claim of infringement, etc., arises as a result of

16.3.1.sec=the Service Provider's compliance with the Specifications,

16.3.2.sec=use of the Work Product other than in accordance with applicable specifications or documentation relating to the Work Product,

16.3.3.sec=modification or alteration of the Work Product after delivery by the Service Provider,

16.3.4.sec=use of the Work Product in combination with other products or systems not reasonably anticipated in the specifications, or

16.3.5.sec=infringement arising from materials provided to the Service Provider by or on behalf of the Client in connection with the development of the Work Product.

16.3.=[Z/ol-a/s5]

16.4.Ti=Disclaimer

16.4.sec=The warranties contained in this section 16 (Service Provider's Warranties) are the only ones that the Service Provider makes under this agreement. To the fullest extent permissible under applicable Law, the Service Provider disclaims all other warranties, express or implied (including warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and non-infringement).

16.5.Ti=Foreseeability

16.5.sec=Neither party will be liable for breach-of-contract damages that the breaching party could not reasonably have foreseen on entering into these Terms of Use.

16.=[Z/ol/5]

17.Ti=Acknowledgements

17.0.sec=Each party acknowledges to the other party as follows:

17.1.Ti=No Exclusivity

17.1.sec=The Client may obtain any services similar to the Services from any other service provider and the Service Provider is free to provide services similar to the Services to any third parties.

17.2.Ti=No Minimum Volume

17.2.sec=Nothing in this agreement requires the Client to purchase any particular volume or quantity of Services. Any such commitment will arise only under a Statement of Work signed by both parties in accordance with this agreement.

17.3.Ti=Additional Resources

17.3.0.sec=Except as provided in a Statement of Work for a specific Service, in providing the Services, the Service Provider will not be required to

17.3.1.sec=hire any additional employees,

17.3.2.sec=maintain the employment of any specific employee, or

17.3.3.sec=purchase, lease, or license any additional equipment or software.

17.3.=[Z/ol-a/s3]

17.4.Ti=Employment Matters

17.4.sec=The Service Provider will be exclusively responsible for the payment of all salaries and benefits of, and all tax, insurance, benefits, and employment-related withholdings, premiums, and remittances for, its employees and independent Service Providers involved in providing the Services.

17.5.Ti=Taxes and Benefits

17.5.sec=The Service Provider will be solely responsible for any employment-related taxes, insurance premiums or other employment benefits respecting its Personnel's performance of Services under this agreement.

17.6.Ti=No Other Obligations

17.6.sec=Neither party assumes any obligations under this agreement other than those expressly described here.

17.=[Z/ol/6]

18.Ti=Cooperation

18.1.Ti=Necessary Cooperation

18.1.sec=The parties shall use good faith efforts to cooperate with each other in all matters relating to the provision and receipt of Services.

18.2.Ti=Availability of Personnel for Consultation

18.2.sec=Each party shall, at all reasonable times, make their properly authorized personnel available to the other party's for the purpose of consultation and decision.

18.3.Ti=Access to Facilities

18.3.sec=The Client shall provide the Service Provider with access to its facilities, information systems, and equipment as the Service Provider may reasonably require to provide the Services, subject to any physical security procedures.

18.4.Ti=Minimization of Tax Payable

18.4.sec=The parties shall, wherever legally permissible, cooperate with each other to enable each party to minimize its own tax cost that arises from or is associated with this agreement. Where applicable, each party shall provide the other with certificates of tax exemptions, purchase exemption certificates, information regarding out-of-province or out-of-country sales or use of services, bills of sale, other exemption certificates, and any other information reasonably requested by the other party.

18.=[Z/ol/4]

19.Ti=Compliance

19.1.Ti=Compliance with Laws

19.1.0.sec=The Service Provider shall itself comply, and shall cause its Personnel and Subcontractors to comply, with

19.1.1.sec=all applicable Laws and industry regulations relating to the Services, and

19.1.2.sec=the Client's security requirements and other published policies.

19.1.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

19.2.Ti=Evidence of Compliance

19.2.sec=The Service Provider shall keep such records and provide the Client with such reporting or evidence of compliance as the Client may reasonably require to meet its obligations under this section.

19.3.Ti=Potential Violation of Laws

19.3.sec=The Service Provider will not be responsible for providing any Service if and to the extent that doing so would violate applicable Law. The Service Provider will not have any responsibility or liability for failure to provide any Service unable to be provided as contemplated by this section 19.3 (Potential Violation of Laws).

19.4.Ti=Compliance with Third Party Agreements

19.4.sec=Each party shall comply with the terms of any applicable third party agreements in connection with the provision or receipt (as applicable) of the Services.

19.=[Z/ol/4]

20.Ti=Books and Records

20.1.Ti=Maintaining Records

20.1.sec=Each party shall maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with applicable Law and its own document retention policies, books and records of all transactions pertaining to the performance or receipt (as applicable) of the Services.

20.2.Ti=Records Retention

20.2.1.Ti=Access to Records

20.2.1.0.sec=The Service Provider shall maintain all Client Data and the records, documents, and other information required to meet the Client's audit rights under this agreement until the later of

20.2.1.1.sec=(i) {seven} years after expiration or termination of this agreement,

20.2.1.2.sec=(ii) the date that all pending matters relating to this agreement are closed, and

20.2.1.3.sec=(iii) the expiry of any retention requirements under applicable Law.

20.2.1.=[Z/ol-i/s3]

20.2.2.Ti=Delivery of Information

20.2.2.sec=If the Client requests delivery of this information before the expiration of the retention period (x) but during the term of this agreement, the Service Provider shall provide same to the Client at the Service Provider's cost, and (y) but after the expiration or termination of this agreement, the Service Provider shall provide it to the Client at the Client's cost. The Service Provider will not, however, have any retention obligations if the Service Provider has returned all this information to the Client.

20.2.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

20.=[Z/ol/2]

21.Ti=Confidentiality

21.1.Ti=Confidentiality Obligations

21.1.sec=During the Restricted Period, the Service Provider shall hold all Confidential Information in confidence in accordance with the terms of this agreement. The Service Provider shall use the Confidential Information solely for the purpose of providing the Services.

21.2.Ti=Storage of Client Data

21.2.sec=The Service Provider shall store, and shall ensure that any Approved Subcontractor stores, Client Data solely for the purpose of providing the Services and subject to the terms of this agreement.

21.3.Ti=Standard of Care

21.3.sec=In protecting the Confidential Information, the receiving party shall exercise at least the same degree of care as it uses with its own Confidential Information, but in no event less than reasonable care. 

21.4.Ti=Permitted Disclosure

21.4.0.sec=The Service Provider may disclose Confidential Information to its Representatives or to an Approved Subcontractor but only

21.4.1.sec=to the extent necessary to provide the Services to the Client under this agreement,

21.4.2.sec=if the Service Provider first informs them of, and directs them to maintain, its confidential nature in accordance with the terms of this agreement{, and}

21.4.3.sec=upon the Client's request in connection with any Approved Subcontractor or any of the Service Provider's Representatives{ other than a director, officer, shareholder, partner, or employee}, if they each first enter into separate written agreements to that effect{ in a form acceptable to the Client}.

21.4.=[Z/ol-a/s3]

21.5.Ti=Required Disclosure

21.5.0.sec=The Service Provider may disclose Confidential Information to a third party if it is required to do so by Law but only if, before that disclosure, the Service Provider, to the extent permitted by Law,

21.5.1.sec=gives the Client Notice to allow it a reasonable opportunity to either seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy or waive the Service Provider's compliance with this section,

21.5.2.sec=reasonably cooperates with the Client{, at the Client's expense,} in its reasonable efforts to obtain a protective order or other appropriate remedy,

21.5.3.sec=discloses only that portion of the Confidential Information that{, having consulted with its counsel,} it is legally required to disclose, and

21.5.4.sec=uses reasonable efforts to obtain reliable written assurance from the third party that the Confidential Information will be kept confidential.

21.5.=[Z/ol-a/s4]

21.6.Ti=Value and Nature of Confidential Information

21.6.sec=The parties acknowledge that the Confidential Information is proprietary and has competitive value. Accordingly, any disclosure to the Client's competitors or to the public would be detrimental to the best interests of the Client, which may incur losses, costs, and damages as a result.

21.7.Ti=Burden of Proof

21.7.sec=The Service Provider will have the burden of proof relating to all exceptions to the definition of Confidential Information. {The Service Provider may rely on its own written records in support of its position.}

21.=[Z/ol/7]

22.Ti=Insurance

22.1.Ti=Required Types

22.1.0.sec=The Service Provider shall maintain or cause to be maintained on behalf of itself and cause each of its Approved Subcontractors or others utilized by the Service Provider and for whom the Service Provider has assumed responsibility to maintain, the following:

22.1.1.Ti=Crime Insurance

22.1.1.sec=Crime insurance in an amount of at least ${1 million} for each loss, providing coverage for dishonest or fraudulent acts of any of its employees and subcontractors wherever committed and whether acting alone or in collusion with others excluding Client employees.

22.1.2.Ti=E&O Insurance

22.1.2.sec=Errors and omissions liability insurance in an amount equal to ${5 million} per claim and in the aggregate annually providing coverage for liability imposed by applicable Law arising out of an error, omission or negligent act in the rendering of Services and in creating and providing the Work Product.

22.1.3.Ti=Technology Professional Liability Insurance

22.1.3.sec=Technology Professional Liability Insurance with a combined single limit of ${1 million} per occurrence and ${2 million} annual aggregate for damages caused by error, omission or negligent acts related to any Services to be provided under this agreement.

22.1.4.Ti=Commercial General Liability Insurance

22.1.4.sec=Commercial general liability insurance covering liability imposed by law arising from bodily injury, death or property damage, with minimum combined limits of not less than ${5 million} for each loss and in the aggregate. Such coverage shall be on an occurrence basis and shall include coverage for premises liability, non-owned automobile liability, personal injury liability, incidental medical malpractice, employers' liability, contractual liability coverage, and broad form property damage coverage and coverage for products and completed operations.

22.1.5.Ti=Automobile Liability Insurance

22.1.5.sec=Automobile liability covering liability of licensed motor vehicles hired, owned or leased by the Service Provider that are used in connection with the Services provided under this agreement with minimum combined limits of not less than ${2 million} for each loss and in the aggregate.

22.1.6.Ti=All Risks Insurance

22.1.6.sec="All risks" insurance (including flood, sewer back-up, earthquake and sprinkler leakage) and property insurance upon tangible property (including buildings, machinery, equipment, stock, suppliers and other contents owned by the Service Provider and any Approved Subcontractors, or for which the Service Provider or any Approved Subcontractor is legally liable, including such property installed by or on behalf of the Service Provider or any Approved Subcontractor at any the Client location, in an amount not less than the full replacement cost from time to time).

22.1.7.Ti=Workers' Safety Insurance

22.1.7.sec=Workers' safety insurance or equivalent coverage as required by applicable Law.

22.1.=[Z/ol-a/7]

22.2.Ti=Insured Limits

22.2.sec=The required insured limits under section 21.01 (Required Types) will be composed of any combination of primary and excess (umbrella) insurance policies.

22.3.Ti=Additional Insured

22.3.sec=The {PARTY B} shall ensure that its insurance coverage will list the {PARTY A} as an additional insured and as a loss payee.

22.4.Ti=Cross-Liability Clause in General Liability Policy

22.4.sec=The Service Provider shall ensure that the commercial general liability insurance policy contains a cross liability clause, naming the Client as an additional insured (provided that for certainty the Client may assert Claims under this section 21.04 on behalf of its affiliates and members of the Client Group), and provide full tenant's legal liability coverage if the Service Provider or any subcontractor is providing Services to the Client or any member of the Client Group out of premises leased from others.

22.5.Ti=Coverage only from Authorized Insurers

22.5.sec=Insurance coverage that the Service Provider is required to maintain under this section 21 (Insurance) will be effected with valid and enforceable policies issued by insurance companies carrying a current {AM Best & Company} rating of at least "A-".
22.6.Ti=Evidence of Coverage

22.6.0.sec=On or before the Effective Date, and from time to time thereafter at the Client request, the Service Provider shall provide the Client with certificates of insurance reasonably acceptable to the Client that

22.6.1.sec=evidence the coverage required to be maintained under section 21.01 (Required Insurance),

22.6.2.sec=in the case of workers' safety insurance, a certificate of clearance from the Workers Safety and Insurance Board or equivalent Governmental Authority in any jurisdiction confirming that all of the Service Provider's accounts with that Governmental Authority are current and in good standing, and

22.6.3.sec=recording that insurer will give the Client at least {60} days' prior notice of cancellation of coverage, except if cancellation is for non-payment of premium, in which case the Client shall be given only 10 days' prior notice of cancellation.

22.6.=[Z/ol-a/s3]

22.7.Ti=Certificate of Insurance

22.7.sec=Within {10} days of renewal of any coverage, the Service Provider shall provide the Client with a certificate of insurance evidencing the renewal.

22.8.Ti=Failure to Obtain and Maintain Insurance

22.8.sec=If the Service Provider fails to obtain and maintain any insurance coverage described in section 21.01 (Required Insurance), the Client may, without assuming any obligation by doing so, effect the required insurance coverage at the Service Provider's sole cost. The Service Provider shall reimburse the Client upon demand for all expenses that it incurs in securing that insurance coverage.

22.9.Ti=No Effect on Liability under SOWs

22.9.sec=The insurance requirements of this section 21 (Insurance) do not limit or modify any liability that would otherwise exist any Statement of Work in the absence of these requirements.

22.=[Z/ol/9]

23.Ti=Intellectual Property Rights

23.1.Ti=Assignment of Intellectual Property Rights

23.1.sec=The Client exclusively owns all Intellectual Property Rights in any intellectual property that is incorporated into any Work Product. To the extent that the Service Provider, in providing the Services, has acquired any such Intellectual Property Rights, the Service Provider hereby absolutely and irrevocably assigns those Intellectual Property Rights to the Client in perpetuity.

23.2.Ti=License of Service Provider Intellectual Property

23.2.0.sec=Subject to section 22.01 (Assignment of Intellectual Property Rights), the Service Provider exclusively owns and retains the interest in all Service Provider Intellectual Property. The Service Provider hereby grants to the Client, strictly for the Client's own internal business use and operations,

23.2.1.0.sec=a non-exclusive, personal, irrevocable (subject to the terms in this agreement), royalty-free, non-transferable and non-sublicensable licence to use, during the term of this agreement and the Termination Assistance Period, any Service Provider Intellectual Property embedded in any Work Product that

23.2.1.1.sec=is expressly identified for use by the Client in any applicable Statement of Work,

23.2.1.2.sec=is used in creating or incorporated into the Services and must be used by the Client in connection with the Client's enjoyment, use or implementation of the Services,

23.2.1.3.sec=represents a Deliverable but is not the Work Product and is necessarily required for the proper functioning of the Work Product, or

23.2.1.4.sec=represents a Deliverable but is not a Work Product and is connected to any the Work Product, together with

23.2.1.=[Z/ol-i/s4]

23.2.2.sec=a perpetual, non-exclusive, personal, irrevocable, royalty-free, and non-transferable license to use the Service Provider Intellectual Property to the extent it is embedded or incorporated in any Work Product.

23.2.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

23.3.Ti=Ownership of Work Product

23.3.sec=The Client owns the interest in all Work Product as its exclusive property.

23.4.Ti=Right to Modify

23.4.sec=The Client may at any time modify any Service Provider Intellectual Property referred to in section 26.02 (License to Use Service Provider Intellectual Property).

23.5.Ti=Waiver of Moral Rights

23.5.sec=The Service Provider hereby expressly waives, and shall cause its employees and Approved Subcontractors to expressly waive, to the full extent permitted by law, any moral rights that it or any of them has or may have in or in connection with any Work Product.

23.6.Ti=Each Party's Rights

23.6.sec=Neither party will acquire any Intellectual Property Rights in the intellectual property of the other party except as set out in this section (Intellectual Property Rights).

24.Ti=Inspection and Audit

24.1.Ti=Inspection

24.1.sec=The Service Provider shall, upon reasonable Notice from the Client, provide access to its offices during normal business hours for the purpose of conducting an inspection to verify that the Service Provider is in compliance with the terms of this agreement. The Service Provider shall cooperate with the Client in its inspection.

24.2.Ti=Conduct of Inspection

24.2.sec=The Client shall conduct any inspection in a manner so as not to unreasonably disrupt the Service Provider's business and subject to the Service Provider's standard security procedures. The Client shall restrict the scope, manner, and duration of any inspection to that reasonably necessary to achieve its purpose.

24.3.Ti=Confidentiality of Information

24.3.sec=The Client shall keep confidential any information that it obtains from any inspection or audit, except as may be required to exercise its rights under this agreement.

24.4.Ti=Duration of Rights

24.4.sec=The Service Provider's rights and the Client's obligations under this section (Inspection and Audit) continue for a period of {two} years following the termination or expiration of this agreement.

24.=[Z/ol/4]

25.Ti=Termination

25.1.Ti=Termination upon Notice

25.1.sec=Either party may terminate this agreement for any reason upon {TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE NOTICE} Business Days' Notice to the other party. The Client may terminate the Services described in a particular Statement of Work upon {TERMINATION OF SOW SERVICES NOTICE} Business Days' Notice to the Service Provider without affecting the parties other obligations to each other under this agreement, which will continue in full force.

25.2.Ti=Termination upon Breach

25.2.1.Ti=Failure to Pay

25.2.1.sec=If Client fails to pay when due any amount owing under this agreement and that failure continues for {five} Business Days, the Service Provider may terminate this agreement, with immediate effect, by giving Notice to the other party.

24.2.2.Ti=Any Other Breach

24.2.2.0.sec=If one party

24.2.2.1.sec=(i) commits any material breach or material default in the performance of any obligation either under this agreement (other than Client's obligation to pay money) or under a particular Statement of Work, and

24.2.2.2.sec=(ii) the breach or default continues for a period of {CURE PERIOD} Business Days after the other party delivers Notice to it reasonably detailing the breach or default,

24.2.2.00.sec=then the other party may terminate this agreement or the particular Statement of Work as the case may be, with immediate effect, by giving Notice to the first party.

24.2.2.=[Z/ol-i/s2]

25.3.Ti=Termination upon Insolvency Event

25.3.sec=This agreement will terminate immediately upon the occurrence of an Insolvency Event.

25.4.Ti=Termination upon Change in Control of Service Provider

25.4.sec=The Client may terminate this agreement, with immediate effect, by giving Notice to the Service Provider, in the event of a Change in Control of the Service Provider.

26.Ti=Effect of Termination

26.1.Ti=Payment of Outstanding Amounts

26.1.sec=The Client shall immediately pay to the Service Provider all amounts outstanding as of the date of, and any amounts outstanding as a result of, termination.

26.2.Ti=Return of Property

26.2.sec=Upon termination or expiration of this agreement, the Service Provider shall return to the Client all Client property, both originals and copies, under its direct or indirect control.

26.3.Ti=User IDs and Passwords

26.3.sec=The parties shall use good faith efforts at the termination or expiration of this agreement or any specific Service to ensure that all applicable user IDs and passwords are cancelled.

26.4.Ti=Obligation to Mitigate

26.4.sec=In the case of any termination of this agreement or the Services in connection with a particular Statement of Work, as the case may be, the parties shall cooperate to mitigate their respective costs of termination.

26.5.Ti=Effect on Outstanding SOWs

26.5.sec=No termination upon Notice by the Client under section 28.01 will reduce or limit either party's obligations under any Statement of Work then in effect. In that case, this agreement will remain in place only in connection with the existing Statements of Work until the obligations specified in those Statements of Work and in this agreement are completed.

26.6.Ti=Advice as to Status of Work

26.6.0.sec=Upon termination of this agreement or of a particular Statement of Work, as the case may be, the Service Provider shall

26.6.1.sec=inform the Client of the status of the performance of the Services relating to all Statements of Work then outstanding or the particular Statement of Work, as the case may be, and

26.6.2.sec=deliver to the Client whatever outstanding Deliverables then exist, including any work in progress, in the manner prescribed by the Client.

26.6.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

26.7.Ti=Termination Assistance Services

26.7.sec=Except where the Service Provider has terminated this agreement due to the Client's material breach or material default in the performance of any obligation under this agreement, the Service Provider shall provide Termination Assistance Services to the Client for a period not to exceed {90} days following termination of the agreement or the particular Statement of Work, as the case may be, on the terms set forth in the applicable Statement(s) of Work, if any, and in any event upon terms that are fair and commercially reasonable and generally commensurate and consistent with leading industry practices concerning the provision of transition assistance and cooperation services for services similar to the Services.

26.8.Ti=Transition Plan

26.8.sec=If requested by the Client, the Service Provider shall develop and provide to the Client for its approval, and once approved by the Client, then monitor and regularly update, a detailed Termination Assistance Services transition plan to provide for an orderly transition on termination that includes, among other things, a transition timeline and particulars of the resources to be assigned to implement the transition plan.

26.9.Ti=Transition of Services

26.9.sec=On termination of this agreement for any reason, the Service Provider shall liaise with the Client and the Client's replacement or other service provider to provide for an orderly transition of the Services, and shall in a timely fashion and as part of the transition plan referred in the immediately preceding section, or otherwise as the Client may direct, deliver over to the Client such documentation and information in the possession or control of the Service Provider as the Client may reasonably require.

26.=[Z/ol/9]

27.Ti=Limitations and Exclusions of Liability

27.1.Ti=Service Provider's Liability

27.1.0.sec=The Service Provider's sole responsibility to the Client

27.1.1.sec=for errors or omissions in Services, will be to correct the information or payment, or to adjust the Services, at no additional cost or expense to the Client, but only if the Client promptly advised it of the error or omission upon becoming aware of it after having used reasonable efforts to detect any such errors or omissions, and

27.1.2.sec=for failure to deliver any Service because of impracticability will be to use reasonable efforts to make the Services available and to resume performing the Service as promptly as reasonably practicable.

27.1.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

27.2.Ti=Parties' Limitation of Liability

27.2.sec=Each party's entire liability for all claims arising out of or relating to this agreement, and regardless of the basis of the claim, will not exceed an amount that is {two} times the aggregate of all amounts paid or payable by the Client under the agreement in the {12} month period before the claim. If a claim arises before the expiry of the first {12} months of the term of this agreement, then the amount will be equal to the product of the total amounts paid or payable by the Client during the elapsed portion of the term of this agreement divided by the number of months (or partial month) so elapsed and then multiplied by the number 12.

27.3.Ti=Exclusions of Liability

27.3.0.sec=The terms of the immediately preceding section (Limitation of Liability) do not apply in the case of

27.3.1.sec=the Service Provider's indemnification obligations under section 27 (Indemnification),

27.3.2.sec=any infringement of any party's Intellectual Property Rights,

27.3.3.sec=the gross negligence or wrongful misconduct of the Service Provider, any Approved Subcontractor, or any Person for which the Service Provider is responsible at Law (including the Service Provider's intentional refusal to provide the Services or Termination Assistance Services),

27.3.4.sec=personal injury (including death) for which and to the extent the party is liable,

27.3.5.sec=damage to tangible personal property or real property for which and to the extent the party is liable, and

27.3.6.sec=failure to obtain or maintain the insurance coverages required under section 21 (Insurance).

17.3.=[Z/ol-a/s6]

27.4.Ti=Foreseeability

27.4.sec=Neither party will be liable for breach-of-contract damages that the breaching party could not reasonably have foreseen when entering into this agreement.

27.=[Z/ol/4]

28.Ti=Indemnification

28.1.Ti=Client's Indemnity

28.1.0.sec=The Service Provider shall indemnify the Client{ and its directors, officers, employees, shareholders, partners, agents, and Affiliates,} against all claims, liability, and expenses (including legal Fees) arising from any third party claim or proceeding brought against one party that alleges damages suffered by any third party in connection with

28.1.1.sec=the proper use or operation of any Work Product,

28.1.2.sec=the delivery of the Services by the Service Provider or any Approved Subcontractor, or

28.1.3.sec=the Client's use of the Service Provider Intellectual Property that is assigned to the Client under section 22.01, or

28.1.4.sec=the third party's Intellectual Property Rights.

28.1.=[Z/ol-a/s4]

28.2.Ti=Mutual Indemnity

28.2.sec=Each party shall indemnify the other party{ and its directors, officers, employees, shareholders, partners, agents, and Affiliates,} against all claims, liability, and expenses (including legal Fees) arising from any third party claim or proceeding brought against one party that alleges any {grossly} negligent act or omission or willful conduct of the other party{ or its directors, officers, employees, shareholders, partners, agents, or Affiliates}.

28.3.Ti=Notice of Claim

28.3.sec=A party shall give prompt Notice to the other party of any claim or potential claim for indemnification under this section.

28.4.Ti=Exclusive Remedies

28.4.sec=The rights granted under this section 19 (Indemnification) are the exclusive remedies available under this agreement in connection with the claims and losses that this section addresses.

28.=[Z/ol/4]

29.Ti=Definitions

29.0.sec=In addition to the terms defined at the top of the first page of this agreement, the following definitions apply:

29.1.sec="Acceptance Criteria" means the Client's acceptance criteria for a particular Deliverable as detailed in the Statement of Work in connection with that Deliverable.

29.2.sec="Additional Services" means additional services that the Service Provider will provide to the Client in accordance with the terms of this agreement.

29.3.sec="Additional Service" means any service that the Client requests, in accordance with section 7.01 (Request for Additional Services), be added to the Services.

29.4.sec="Affiliate" of any Person means, at the time the determination is made, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with that Person.

29.5.sec="Approved Subcontractor" means a subcontractor that has been approved by the Client in writing to provide Services.

29.6.sec="Business Day" means a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, or any other day on which the principal chartered banks located in {REFERENCE CITY} are not open for business.

29.7.sec="Change Order" means an order implementing a Change Request, in the form attached as Exhibit 2, that the parties have agreed to, signed by an authorized signing officer on behalf of each party.

29.8.sec=Change Request" means a Notice that the Client sends to the Service Provider requesting a modification of one or more Services, setting forth in reasonable detail a description of the requested modification and its proposed effective date.

29.9.0.sec="Client Data" means all Information of, about, or relating to the Client and includes

29.9.1.sec=information that the Client provides to the Service Provider in connection with the Service Provider's performance of the Services, and

29.9.2.sec=information the Service Provider learns about the Client arising directly or indirectly from the Service Provider's performance of the Services.

29.9.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

29.10.0.sec="Confidential Information" means all {material} {non-public} {business-related} information, written or oral{, whether or not it is marked as confidential}, disclosed or made available to the Service Provider,{ directly or indirectly,} through any means of communication {or observation} by the Client{ or any of its Affiliates or representatives} to{ or for the benefit of} the Service Provider, but does not include information that

29.10.1.sec=is or becomes publicly known through no wrongful act of the Service Provider,

29.10.2.sec=the Service Provider received in good faith on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Client or its Representatives,

29.10.3.sec=was in the Service Provider's possession before its disclosure by the Client or its Representatives,

29.10.4.sec=the Service Provider developed independently without breach of this agreement, or

29.10.5.sec=the Client has explicitly approved, by Notice to the Service Provider, for release to a third party.

29.10.=[Z/ol-a/s5]

29.11.sec="Consent" means each license, permit, approval, consent, certificate, registration, order, or authorization from any Governmental Authority or any other Person that is needed to conduct some aspect of the Client's business.

29.12.sec="Consent Fee" means the amount required to pay to a third party that is providing any Consent that is required for the performance of any Service.

29.13.sec="Control" means, for a Person, the ownership interest in an entity that has the practical effect of giving that Person, either alone or with others, the majority voting interest in that entity, and the terms "Controlled" and "Controlling" have comparable meanings.

29.14.0.sec="Deliverable" means any

29.14.1.sec=deliverable described or referred to in a Statement of Work, and

29.14.2.sec=materials, data, or documentation developed, conceived, or reduced to practice, in whole or in part, by the Service Provider under either this agreement or any Statement of Work and used or intended to be used to provide the Services.

29.14.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

29.15.sec="Fees" means collectively the Fees (including any charges or expenses) for Services described in the corresponding Statement of Work.

29.16.0.sec="Governmental Authority" means

29.16.1.sec=the government of the United States or any other nation, or any of its or their geographical or political units or subdivisions, and

29.16.2.sec=any body, agency, tribunal, arbitrator, court, authority, or other entity that exercises executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory, or administrative powers or functions of, or relating to, government.

29.16.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

29.17.0.sec="Improvement" means any improvement to

29.17.1.sec=the Services,

29.17.2.sec=the Deliverables,

29.17.3.sec=the Client's business processes or other the Client operations,

29.17.4.sec=the Service Provider's assets, business processes, or other the Service Provider operations, or

29.17.5.sec=any other aspect of the Service Provider's operations relating to the Services that will enable the Service Provider or the Client to maintain or enhance their respective competitive advantages.

29.17.=[Z/ol-a/s5]

29.18.0.sec="Improvement Opportunity" means any opportunity to implement any Improvements, which may include

29.18.1.sec=the implementation of enhancements to the Services,

29.18.2.sec=the implementation of new or improved business, operational, or workflow management processes as part of the Services,

29.18.3.sec=the renegotiation or establishment of more economically favorable licensing or services arrangements with third parties, or

29.18.4.sec=the implementation of new or improved business, operational or workflow management processes by the Client that will reduce the cost to the Client of operating its business.

29.18.=[Z/ol-a/s4]

29.19.0.sec="Insolvency Event" means any of the following:

29.19.1.Ti=Insolvency

29.19.1.sec=The Service Provider admits in writing that it is insolvent or unable to pay its debts, or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due.

29.19.2.Ti=Bankruptcy

29.19.2.sec=The Service Provider files a voluntary petition, or one or more of its creditors file a petition, seeking its rehabilitation, liquidation, or reorganization under any Law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, or other relief of debtors and the petition is not removed within 60 Business Days of filing.

29.19.3.Ti=Receivership

29.19.3.sec=A receiver or other custodian is appointed to take possession of substantially all of the Service Provider's assets.

29.19.4.Ti=Dissolution

29.19.4.sec=The Service Provider takes any action toward the dissolution or winding up of its affairs or the cessation or suspension of its activities.

29.19.5.Ti=Liquidation

29.19.5.sec=A court of competent jurisdiction enters a decree or order directing the winding up or liquidation of the Service Provider or of all or substantially all of its assets.

29.19.6.Ti=General Assignment

29.19.6.sec=The Service Provider makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors.

29.19.7.Ti=Attachment

29.19.7.sec=Any attachment, execution, or other judicial seizure is levied against all or substantially all of the Service Provider's assets.

29.19.=[Z/ol-a/s7]

29.20.sec="Intellectual Property Rights" means all rights in and to any intellectual property, including all extensions to and derivatives of that property.

29.21.0.sec="Law" means

29.21.1.sec=any law (including the common law), statute, by-law, rule, regulation, order, ordinance, treaty, decree, judgment, and

29.21.2.sec=any official directive, protocol, code, guideline, notice, approval, order, policy, or other requirement of any Governmental Authority having the force of law.

29.21.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

29.22.0.sec="Legal Change" means any change in Law that, directly or indirectly, affects or may affect, or relates or may relate to,

29.22.1.sec=any Work Product,

29.22.2.sec=the Service Provider's delivery of the Services, or

29.22.3.sec=any other of the Service Provider's obligations under this agreement.

29.22.=[Z/ol-a/s3]

29.23.sec="Notice" means any notice, request, direction, or other document that a party can or must make or give under this agreement.

29.24.0.sec="Person" includes

29.24.1.sec=any corporation, Client, limited liability Client, partnership, Governmental Authority, joint venture, fund, trust, association, syndicate, organization, or other entity or group of persons, whether incorporated or not, and

29.24.2.sec=any individual.

29.24.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

29.25.sec="Personnel" means any employees, agents, or other Representatives of the Service Provider and of any Approved Subcontractors who are engaged in providing any of the Services.

29.26.sec="Plans" means business continuity and disaster recovery plans.

29.27.sec="Mandatory Change" means a modification of a Service that is the result of a change in the Law that requires a change in the particular Service.

29.28.sec="Non-Mandatory Change" means any modification of a Service other than a Mandatory Change.

29.29.0.sec="Representative" means, for any Person,

29.29.1.sec=each director, officer, shareholder, partner, employee, agent, or professional advisor{ in connection with the transactions contemplated in this agreement}, and any other authorized representative, and

29.29.2.sec=that Person's Affiliates and the directors, officers, shareholders, partners, employees, agents, or professional advisors{ in connection with the transactions contemplated in this agreement} of those Affiliates.

29.29.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

29.30.sec="Restricted Period" means the period beginning on the date of termination or expiration of this agreement and ending {two} years thereafter.

29.31.sec="Service Provider Intellectual Property" means all Intellectual Property belonging to the Service Provider.

29.32.0.sec="Services" means, collectively,

29.32.1.sec=the services listed on the Schedule A (List of Services), and

29.32.2.sec=any Additional Services,

29.32.00.sec=the details for each of which are set out in the corresponding Statement of Work, and includes all Deliverables.

29.32.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

29.33.sec="Statement of Work" means a written statement of work, substantially in the form and format attached as Exhibit 1, that is agreed to between, and executed by an authorized representative of, each of the parties.

29.34.sec="Statement of Work Change" means any change to a Statement of Work signed by an authorized signing officer on behalf of each party.

29.35.sec="Subcontractor" means any Person that the Service Provider engages to perform Services under this agreement.

29.36.sec="Work Product" means all Deliverables and Improvements that the Service Provider or any of its Approved Subcontractors derive or develop in the course of delivering the Services or performing any other obligations under this agreement.

29.=[Z/ol/s36]

30.Ti=General

30.1.Ti=Entire Agreement

30.1.sec=This agreement contains all the terms agreed to by the parties relating to its subject matter. It replaces all previous discussions, understandings, and agreements.

30.2.Ti=Further Assurances

30.2.sec=Each party, upon receipt of Notice from the other party, shall sign (or cause to be signed) all further documents, do (or cause to be done) all further acts, and provide all assurances as may reasonably be necessary or desirable to give effect to the terms of this agreement.

30.3.Ti=Amendment

30.3.sec=This agreement may only be amended by a written document signed by both parties.

30.4.Ti=Assignment

30.4.sec=The Service Provider may not assign this agreement or any of its rights or obligations under this agreement without the Client's prior written consent. The Client may assign this agreement or any of its rights or obligations under this agreement, effective upon Notice to the Service Provider.

30.5.Ti=No Partnership

30.5.sec=The Service Provider is an independent contractor. Nothing contained in this agreement creates a partnership, joint venture, principal-and-agent, or any similar relationship between the parties.

30.6.Ti=Third Party Beneficiaries

30.6.sec=The Indemnification terms of this agreement confer rights and remedies upon the Client's directors, officers, employees, shareholders, partners, agents or Affiliates. No Person other than the parties themselves and those beneficiaries has any rights or remedies under this agreement.

30.7.Ti=Payment of Expenses

30.7.sec=Each party is responsible for all costs (including legal Fees) and other expenses that it incurs in connection with the negotiation and preparation of this agreement.

30.8.Ti=Notices

30.8.1.Ti=Form of Notice

30.8.1.sec=All notices and other communications between the parties must be in writing.

30.8.2.Ti=Method of Notice

30.8.2.sec=Notices must be given by (i) personal delivery, (ii) a nationally-recognized, next-day courier service, (iii) first-class registered or certified mail, postage prepaid{, (iv) fax}{ or (v) electronic mail} to the party's address specified in this agreement, or to the address that a party has notified to be that party's address for the purposes of this section.

30.8.3.Ti=Receipt of Notice

30.8.3.sec=A Notice given in accordance with this agreement will be effective upon receipt by the party to which it is given or, if mailed, upon the earlier of receipt and the fifth Business Day following mailing.

30.8.=[Z/ol-a/3]

30.9.Ti=Remedies Cumulative

30.9.sec=Except as provided in section 27.4 (Exclusive Remedies), the rights and remedies available to a party under this agreement are cumulative and in addition to, not exclusive of or in substitution for, any rights or remedies otherwise available to that party.

30.10.Ti=Survival

30.10.sec=Sections 13.03 (Extension of Term), 15 (Service Provider's Warranties), 19 (Books and Records), 29 (Confidentiality), 22.02 (License of Service Provider Intellectual Property), 22.05 (Waiver of Moral Rights), 23.04 (Duration of Rights), 25 (Effect of Termination), 26 (Limitations and Exclusions of Liabilities), and 27 (Indemnification) survive the termination or expiration of this agreement.

30.11.Ti=Severability

30.11.sec=If any part of this agreement is declared unenforceable or invalid, the remainder will continue to be valid and enforceable.

30.12.Ti=Waiver

30.12.sec=A party's failure or neglect to enforce any of rights under this agreement will not be deemed to be a waiver of that party's rights.

30.13.Ti=Equitable Relief

30.13.sec=Service Provider acknowledges that its breach or threatened breach of any its obligations under section 19 (Confidentiality) would not be susceptible to adequate relief by way of monetary damages only. Accordingly, the Client may, in that case, apply to court for any applicable equitable remedies (including injunctive relief), without the need to post any security.

30.14.Ti=Force Majeure

30.14.sec=Neither party will be liable for any failure of or delay in the performance of any of its obligations under this agreement if its failure or delay is due to the occurrence of Force Majeure.

30.15.Ti=Governing Law

30.15.sec=This agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of {GOVERNING LAW STATE}, without regard to its conflict of laws rules.

30.16.Ti=Dispute Resolution

30.16.1.Ti=Arbitration

30.16.1.sec=Any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this agreement will be settled exclusively by arbitration in {STATE}, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect by {NUMBER OF ARBITRATORS} arbitrator(s).

30.16.2.Ti=No Punitive Damages

30.16.2.sec=The arbitrator(s) will not have the power to award punitive damages.

30.16.3.Ti=Judgment

30.16.3.sec=The successful party may enter the arbitral judgment in any court having jurisdiction.30.17. 

30.16.4.Ti=Waiver of Jury Trial

30.16.4.sec=Each party irrevocably waives its rights to trial by jury in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this agreement or the transactions relating to its subject matter.

30.16.=[Z/ol-a/4]

30.17.Ti=Interpretation

30.17.1.Ti=Currency

30.17.1.sec=Unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts expressed in this agreement refer to American currency.

30.17.2.Ti=Number and Gender

30.17.sec=Unless the context requires otherwise, words importing the singular number include the plural and vice versa, words importing gender include all genders.

30.17.3.Ti=Headings

30.17.3.sec=The headings used in this agreement and its division into articles, sections, schedules, exhibits, appendices,} and other subdivisions do not affect its interpretation.

30.17.4.Ti=Internal References

30.17.4.sec=References in this agreement to articles, sections, and other subdivisions are to those parts of this agreement.

30.17.5.Ti=Calculation of Time

30.17.5.sec=In this agreement, a period of days begins on the first day after the event that began the period and ends at 5:00 p.m. {TIME ZONE} Time on the last day of the period. If any period of time is to expire, or any action or event is to occur, on a day that is not a Business Day, the period expires, or the action or event is considered to occur, at 5:00 p.m. {TIME ZONE} Time on the next Business Day.

30.17.6.Ti=Construction of Terms

30.17.6.sec=The parties have each participated in settling the terms of this agreement. Any rule of legal interpretation to the effect that any ambiguity is to be resolved against the drafting party will not apply in interpreting this agreement.

30.17.7.Ti=Conflict of Terms

30.17.7.sec=If there is any inconsistency between the terms of this agreement and any Statement of Work, the terms of this agreement will prevail. The parties shall take all necessary steps to conform the inconsistent terms to the terms of this agreement.

30.17.=[Z/ol-a/7]

30.18.Ti=Schedules and Exhibits

30.18.0.sec=The following are attached to and form part of this agreement:

30.18.1.sec=Schedule A: List of Services

30.18.2.sec=Exhibit 1: Form of Statement of Work

30.18.3.sec=Exhibit 2: Form of Change Order

30.18.=[Z/ol-a/s3]

30.19.Ti=Counterparts

30.19.sec=This agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which is an original and all of which taken together form one single document.

30.19.Ti=Effectiveness of Agreement

30.19.sec=This agreement is effective as of the date shown at the top of the first page, even if any signatures are made after that date.

30.=[Z/ol/19]


00.Ti={SIGNATURES ON NEXT PAGE}

00.1.sec=This agreement has been signed by the parties.

00.2.sec={P1.Sign.Block}

00.3.sec={P2.Sign.Block}

00.4.sec={Attach.Sec}

00.=[Z/ol-none/s4]

Attach.Ti=Attachments

Attach.1.Ti=Schedule A

Attach.1.sec=List of Services

Attach.2.Ti=Exhibit 1

Attach.2.sec=Form of Statement of Work

Attach.3.Ti=Exhibit 2

Attach.3.sec=Form of Change Order

Attach.=[Z/ol-none/3]

=[Z/ol/30]
