Ti=Naming Conventions used in the MSA

0.sec=This is a short introduction to the major naming conventions.

1.Ti=File Names

1.1.Ti=Specifications

1.1.1.sec=.md suffix for file names.  They present text and html markings correctly on GitHub.

1.1.2.sec=Underscores_for_File_Names.  Avoiding spaces in file names.  Spaces create ambiguities and trick the parser into failure.

1.1.3.sec=Initial Caps and CamelCase.  Capitalization reads more easily for a lay or legal audience, though the alternative practice of camelCase that is common in programming, or all_lower_case also have merits.  For compatibility (for instance with Macs), there cannot be two files with the same name other than capitalization.

1.1.=[Z/ol/s3]
  
1.2.Ti=Types

1.2.1.sec=Files can be organized in nested folders.

1.2.2.sec=The file that expresses a kind of default content of a folder can be called "0.md".  The sorts nicely on the top.  A file that expresses a version of that can be called v01.md, v02.md, etc.  The visual difference between the plain "0.md" and the "vXX.md" may be helpful when reading.  

1.2.3.sec=A file that expresses a part of, or variation of, the content of a folder can use a name such as "Acme_Preference_0.md" or "Acme_Preference_v02.md".

1.2.=[Z/ol/s3]

1.=[Z/ol/2]
  
2.Ti=Key Names

2.1.Ti=Specifications

2.1.1.sec=Key names distinguish between uppercase and Uppercase. 

2.1.2.sec=Key names can have internal spaces, but not leading or trailing spaces.

2.1.3.sec=In text, the Key is specified as {Key}.  I still have no really good name for it.  "Variable" suggests data and has four syllables.

2.1.=[Z/ol/s3]
  
2.2.Ti=Types

2.2.1.sec=.Sec, .Ti and .sec.  ".Sec" means a full section, which ordinarily includes a title (".Ti") and a body of the section (".sec").  These are, admittedly, terse and initially a bit opaque, but they stay out of the way when reading, and are unique. 

2.2.2.sec=".sec" can be a paragraph, or have subparagraphs and subparts.  A convention is expressed via the Z/ gadgets - which have a structure of an intro (0.sec), a list (xlist) of subsections and an extro (paragraph after a list) (now, wrongly called 90.sec, it should be something like 00.sec)   

2.2.3.sec=To a much lesser degree, there are conventions for subparts of sentences.  "Cl" can mean a phrase that begins a sentence, and therefore should have an initial cap.  "cl" for a phrase that can be in the middle of or end a sentence, and does not have an initial cap.  These are much less systematically used.  ("Sen" to mean sentence, can be useful, but I use it very little.  One format of paragraph "Z/para/..." takes .sen elements and expresses them as sentences.)

2.2.4.sec=Defined Terms, such as {_Supplier's_Affiliates}, are preceeded with an underscore and the internal spaces are replaced with underlines.  The leading underscore helps in spotting, but its main purpose is to let us attach the list of defined terms with a prefix of "_=[List_of_Defined_Terms.md]".  This scopes the list of defined terms, because that file (unlike most other files) otherwise would have to be attached without a prefix, and therefore has full scope in the name space.  It seems a prudent to restrict it to "_something..."
 
2.2.=[Z/ol/s4] 

2.=[Z/ol/2]

90.sec=The list is incomplete and is intended to evolve.

=[Z/ol/2]