Ti=Change Requests

1.Ti=Change Requests for Non-Mandatory Changes

1.1.Ti=Client Change Request

1.1.sec=The Client may from time to time make a Change Request for a Non-Mandatory Change by giving Notice to the Service Provider, including all necessary details. The parties shall then negotiate in good faith to come to an agreement to amend the corresponding Statement of Work, which the parties acknowledge may include charging a premium, on terms that are acceptable to the parties, acting reasonably.

1.2.Ti=Consequential Amendments

1.2.sec=If the parties agree to the Change Request, the description of Services in the corresponding Statement of Work will be amended accordingly.

1.3.Ti=Additional Costs

1.3.sec=Any additional costs that the Service Provider incurs to implement the Change Request will be the Client's responsibility, which the Client will owe to the Service Provider in addition to any amended Fees resulting from this Change Request.

1.4.Ti=No Agreement as to Terms

1.4.sec=The Client acknowledges that the parties may not reach an agreement as to such a Change Request. In that case, the Service Provider will have no liability or obligation to the Client in connection with this Change Request.

1.5.Ti=Service Provider Change Request

1.5.sec=The parties acknowledge that the Service Provider may make a Change Request in the manner of performing a Service if the Service Provider is making similar changes in performing similar services for{ itself and} other similar clients. In that case, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to come to an agreement to amend the corresponding Statement of Work in response to this Change Request, which may not, however, include any change to the Fees charged for the corresponding Service.

1.=[Z/ol-a/5]

2.Ti=Change Requests for Mandatory Changes

2.1.Ti=Negotiation

2.1.sec=The Client may from time to time make a Change Request for a Mandatory Change by Notice to the Service Provider, including all necessary details. The parties shall then negotiate in good faith and come to an agreement to amend the Statement of Work for the affected Service on terms that are acceptable to the parties, acting reasonably.

2.2.Ti=No Premium for Changed Services

2.2.sec=The parties acknowledge that a Change Request for a Mandatory Change may include charging a premium for the changed Services. If, however, the Mandatory Change also requires a change to the Service Provider's business, the Service Provider may not charge any premium in providing the Services under the Mandatory Change Request.

2.3.Ti=No Agreement as to Terms

2.3.sec=If the parties fail to come to an agreement as to the description of or Fees for a Mandatory Change, the most recent details submitted by the Service Provider will prevail.

2.=[Z/ol-a/3]

3.Ti=Legal Changes

3.1.Ti=Notice of Legal Changes

3.1.sec=Each party shall promptly identify and give Notice to the other of any Legal Changes of which it becomes aware. The Service Provider and the Client shall then work together to identify the impact of any Legal Change on how the Client uses and how the Service Provider delivers the Services.

3.2.Ti=Continuing Obligation

3.2.sec=Unless otherwise expressly required by a Legal Change in Law, the Service Provider shall perform the Services in accordance with the specific Service performance requirements and specifications, quality standards, or minimum levels of performance or compliance that are stipulated in each applicable Statement of Work, regardless of any such Legal Change.

3.3.Ti=Workarounds

3.3.sec=If any Legal Change prevents the Service Provider from performing any of its obligations under this agreement, the Service Provider shall develop and, upon the Client's approval, implement a suitable workaround until such time as it can perform its obligations without a workaround, If, however, the workaround results or would result in a material increase in any Fees payable, the Client may terminate either this agreement or the affected portion of the Services upon {30} days' Notice to the Service Provider with no cure period. Such a termination will be treated as a termination under section 24.1 (Termination upon Notice), and the Client will have no liability to the Service Provider for any termination Fees or penalty of any kind. For purposes of this paragraph, a "material increase" in Fees is one where it would be uneconomic for the Client to continue the procurement of the relevant portion of the Services, as determined by the Client, having regard to its business plans for those Services as of the Effective Date.

3.4.Ti=Adjustments re Workarounds

3.4.sec=If the Client does not exercise its termination right under the immediately preceding paragraph, upon the implementation of the workaround the parties shall negotiate and implement an equitable adjustment to the affected applicable Fees.

3.=[Z/ol-a/4]

4.Ti=Inability to Provide Services

4.sec=If the Service Provider reasonably believes that it is unable to provide any Service because of a failure to obtain necessary Consents or because of impracticability, the parties shall cooperate to determine the best alternative approach. Until an alternative approach is found or the problem otherwise resolved to the parties' satisfaction, the Service Provider shall use reasonable efforts to continue providing the Service. To the extent that an agreed-upon alternative approach requires payment of an amount to a third party in excess of the amount stipulated in the applicable Statement of Work, the parties shall share equally that excess cost.

=[Z/f/ol/4]

