Ti=Fees and Pricing

1.Ti=Fees

Note=Seem to state payment terms twice?

1.sec=The {_Client} shall pay the required {_Fees} under each {_Statement_of_Work} to the {_Service_Provider} monthly. Each invoice will be accompanied by reasonable documentation or other reasonable explanation supporting the charges noted in the invoice. Subject to the immediately following section (Most Favored Terms), each {_Fee} is fixed. The {_Client} will not be liable to pay any amount that is not identified in the applicable {_Statement_of_Work}. Payment is due {Pay.Invoice.Within.days} after the invoice date.

2.Ti=Most Favored Terms

2.1.Ti=General Principle

2.1.sec=The {_Service_Provider} shall provide the {_Services} on terms, including price, that are at least as favorable as those made available to its other clients for substantially equivalent or lower volume purchases.

2.2.Ti=Specific Requirements

2.2.0.sec=In particular, if the {_Service_Provider} provides services to any client that are the same as or substantially similar to the {_Services} on terms that are more favorable than the terms under this agreement, then the {_Service_Provider} shall

2.2.1.sec=immediately pay to the {_Client}, or credit to the {_Client} against any amount(s) otherwise payable by the {_Client} to the {_Service_Provider} under this agreement, an amount that is equal to the difference between the prices at which the {_Service_Provider} previously made available to its clients the same or substantially similar services and the prices at which the {_Service_Provider} made available to the {_Client} the corresponding {_Services}, and

2.2.2.sec=thereafter provide the {_Services} to the {_Client} on such more favorable terms for substantially equivalent or lower volume purchases.

2.2.=[Z/ol-i/s2]

2.3.Ti=Confirmation of Favored Terms

2.3.sec=Within {FavoredTerms.Confirm.Annual.Within.Days} of each anniversary of the {_Effective_Date}, the {_Service_Provider} shall deliver to the {_Client} written confirmation that the {_Service_Provider} has complied with the terms of this section (Most Favored Terms) during the one-year period preceding the date of the confirmation.

2.=[Z/ol-a/3]

3.Ti=Pricing Adjustments

3.sec=If, in order to comply with any non-U.S. legal requirement, some of the services provided outside the U.S. need to be performed on a basis other than cost, the parties shall adjust the pricing for those {_Services} in a manner that is consistent with theintention of this agreement.

=[Z/ol/3]

