Ti=Services under Statements of Work

1.Ti=Statements of Work

1.0.sec=Each Service obligation will be the subject of its own Statement of Work setting forth, among other things, the following:

1.1.sec=a full description of the particular Service,

1.2.sec=the applicable {_Fees} and payment schedule,

1.3.sec=a description of the {_Deliverables} and the related {_Acceptance_Criteria},

1.4.sec=the materials to be provided by each party, and

1.5.sec=a timeline, if applicable.

1.=[Z/ol-a/s5]

2.Ti=Performance

2.sec=The {_Service_Provider} shall provide the Services to the {_Client} in the time and manner specified in the relevant Statement of Work.

3.Ti=Start Date

3.sec=The {_Service_Provider} has no obligation to begin providing any particular Service until the applicable Statement of Work has been signed.

4.Ti=Deliverables

4.sec=By accepting a Statement of Work, the {_Service_Provider} agrees to provide the {_Deliverables} that are detailed in it. The {_Client} will advise the {_Service_Provider} in a timely manner whether the Service has met the {_Acceptance_Criteria} described in the applicable Statement of Work.

5.Ti=SOWs as Separate Agreements

5.sec=Upon signature by both parties, a Statement of Work will become a part of this agreement but may be enforced as a separate and independent agreement between the parties. In particular, neither party is required to terminate this agreement or any other Statement of Work in order to enforce its rights under a particular Statement of Work.

6.Ti=Capacity Issues

6.0.sec=If the {_Service_Provider} determines that the activities to be performed by it exceed the reasonable capacity of the resources immediately available to it,

6.1.sec=the {_Client}, acting reasonably, shall prioritize its requirements for Services, and

6.2.sec=the {_Service_Provider} shall endeavor to perform the Services in keeping with the order of priority so specified by the {_Client}.

6.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

7.Ti=Obtaining Consents

7.sec=If the performance of a Service requires that a {_Consent} be obtained, each party shall use reasonable efforts to obtain it and to negotiate, if applicable, the payment of the related {_Consent_Fee}. The {_Client} shall pay up to an aggregate amount of ${MAXIMUM AGGREGATE CONSENT FEES} for any {_Consent_Fee}. The {_Service_Provider} will be liable to pay any {_Consent_Fees} in excess of that amount.

8.Ti=Impracticability

8.0.sec=A {_Service_Provider} will not be required to provide any Service to the extent that the performance of the Service

8.1.sec=becomes impracticable as a result of a cause or causes outside the reasonable control of the {_Service_Provider}, including unfeasible technological requirements, or

8.2.sec= would require the {_Service_Provider} to violate any applicable {_Laws} or would result in the breach of any contract by which it is bound relating to the Services.

8.=[Z/ol-a/s2]

=[Z/f/ol/8]
